---
{
  "source_id": 524,
  "url": "https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2025/06/benchmarking-government-support-for-venture-capital_cc27598f/81e53985-en.pdf",
  "source_domain": "oecd.org",
  "source_type": "government",
  "reliability_label": "very_high",
  "title": "Please cite this paper as: OECD (2025-06-27), “Benchmarking government support for venture capital: A comparative analysis”, OECD SME and Entrepreneurship Papers, No. 71, OECD Publishing, Paris.",
  "fetched_at": "2026-05-20T22:13:28.071534+00:00",
  "extraction_method": "tavily_extract",
  "tavily_request_id": "a75f15ad-98c1-4cca-852a-65f822430540",
  "tavily_response_time": 13.28,
  "tavily_usage": {
    "credits": 2
  },
  "favicon": "https://www.oecd.org/etc.clientlibs/oecd/clientlibs/clientlib-base/resources/apple-touch-icon-167x167.png",
  "images": []
}
---

# Please cite this paper as: OECD (2025-06-27), “Benchmarking government support for venture capital: A comparative analysis”, OECD SME and Entrepreneurship Papers, No. 71, OECD Publishing, Paris.

Please cite this paper as: OECD (2025-06-27), “Benchmarking government support for venture capital: A comparative analysis”, OECD SME and Entrepreneurship Papers, No. 71, OECD Publishing, Paris.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/81e53985-en OECD SME and Entrepreneurship Papers No. 71 Benchmarking government support for venture capital A COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OECD  1 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 OECD SME and Entrepreneurship Papers Benchmarking government support for venture capital A comparative analysis Venture capital (VC) plays a pivotal role in funding the growth of innovative start-ups and SMEs, which are important drivers of productivity growth and job creation. This report presents recent trends in VC markets and compares the principal approaches in government VC policies across nine OECD countries with well-developed entrepreneurial ecosystems: Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. The report highlights a significant rise in VC investment over the past 15 years. Government interventions in VC markets have also expanded and evolved, shifting towards indirect investments and investments in later stages of business development, with a view to supporting business scale-ups more actively. The final section discusses how government VC policies are structured, including mechanisms for profit and loss sharing with private investors. Keywords: SMEs; Entrepreneurship; small and medium enterprises; finance; government policies JEL codes: E40, G18, G2, G3, G19, G23 PUBE 2  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 ABOUT THE OECD The OECD is a multi-disciplinary inter-governmental organisation with member countries which engages in its work an increasing number of non-members from all regions of the world. The Organisation’s core mission today is to help governments work together towards a stronger, cleaner, fairer global economy. Through its network of specialised committees and working groups, the OECD provides a setting where governments compare policy experiences, seek answers to common problems, identify good practice, and co-ordinate domestic and international policies. More information available: www.oecd.org. ABOUT THE SME AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP PAPERS The series provides comparative evidence and analysis on SME and entrepreneurship performance and trends and on a broad range of policy areas, including SME financing, innovation, productivity, skills, internationalisation, and others. This document was approved by the Committee on SMEs and Entrepreneurship on 14 March 2025 by written procedure and prepared for publication by the OECD Secretariat. This paper was authorised for publication by Lamia Kamal-Chaoui, Director, Centre for Entrepreneurship, SMEs, Regions and Cities, OECD. This document, as well as any statistical data and map included herein, are without prejudice to the status of or sovereignty over any territory, to the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and to the name of any territory, city or area. The statistical data for Israel are supplied by and under the responsibility of the relevant Israeli authorities. The use of such data by the OECD is without prejudice to the status of the Golan Heights, East Jerusalem and Israeli settlements in the West Bank under the terms of international law. Note by the Republic of Türkiye: The information in this document with reference to “Cyprus” relates to the southern part of the Island. There is no single authority representing both Turkish and Greek Cypriot people on the Island. Türkiye recognises the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC). Until a lasting and equitable solution is found within the context of the United Nations, Türkiye shall preserve its position concerning the “Cyprus issue”. Note by all the European Union Member States of the OECD and the European Union: The Republic of Cyprus is recognised by all members of the United Nations with the exception of Türkiye. The information in this document relates to the area under the effective control of the Government of the Republic of Cyprus. © OECD 2025 Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) This work is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International licence. By using this work, you accept to be bound by the terms of this licence (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Attribution – you must cite the work. Translations – you must cite the original work, identify changes to the original and add the following text: In the event of any discrepancy between the original work and the translation, only the text of original work should be considered valid. Adaptations – you must cite the original work and add the following text: This is an adaptation of an original work by the OECD. The opinions expressed and arguments employed in this adaptation should not be reported as representing the official views of the OECD or of its Member countries. Third-party material – the licence does not apply to third-party material in the work. If using such material, you are responsible for obtaining permission from the third party and for any claims of infringement. You must not use the OECD logo, visual identity or cover image without express permission or suggest the OECD endorses your use of the work. Any dispute arising under this licence shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) Arbitration Rules 2012. The seat of arbitration shall be Paris (France). The number of arbitrators shall be one.  3 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 This report was produced by the OECD Centre for Entrepreneurship, SMEs, Regions and Cities (CFE), led by Lamia Kamal-Chaoui, Director, as part of the programme of work of the OECD Committee on SMEs and Entrepreneurship (CSMEE). The two authors of the report are Marco Marchese and Maria Camila Jimenez Suarez, both policy analysts in the SME and Entrepreneurship Division (SMEE) of CFE. Robinson Koger provided research assistance covering the experiences of France and the United States. The report has been prepared under the supervision of Miriam Koreen (Senior Counsellor and Head of Unit, CFE/SMEE) and Lucia Cusmano (Head of Division, CFE/SMEE) and has benefited from the financial support of France’s public development bank (Bpifrance) and the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). In particular, the authors are thankful to Alexandre Gazaniol, Head of the Evaluation Unit in Bpifrance, for his continued support of the project and comments on earlier versions of the paper. Information provided by the Netherlands and the European Investment Fund (EIF) is gratefully acknowledged. The report further benefited from inputs and revisions by the OECD CSMEE and its Informal Steering Group on SME and Entrepreneurship Financing. The report builds on nine country profiles of VC policies, short versions of which are available online on the landing page of this report. The report was declassified on 14 March 2025. Acknowledgements 4  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Table of contents Acknowledgements 3 Executive Summary 6 1 Introduction 8 2 Recent trends in venture capital markets 10 VC markets experienced rapid expansions until 2021 10 VC markets are largely focused on start-up/early and late-stage investments 11 VC investments are concentrated in certain technologies and sectors 15 3 Recent trends in government venture capital policies 17 The role of governments in VC markets has grown in the last fifteen years 17 Government VC investments are often channelled through public development banks 19 Indirect investments have become increasingly prominent in government VC policies 25 There are some countries where direct VC investments still play a very important role 26 The rise in VC indirect investments has been accompanied by a rise in growth-stage investments 28 Government policies aim to attract institutional investors to the VC market 29 EU institutions support the development of an integrated European VC market 30 Government VC policies are often sector-neutral but some strategic sectors are also specifically being targeted 32 Government VC policies are also sometimes used to pursue regional and social development objectives 34 4 Recent trends in the management of government venture capital programmes 36 The governance of VC-dedicated government institutions varies across countries but tends to include both government and private-sector representatives 36 Government VC investment decisions broadly follow the private-sector model 37 VC investment returns are often shared equally between government and private investors, although there are exceptions 38 Government VC funding seeks to support domestic companies 39 5 Conclusions 41 References 42 Notes 47 Annex A. Exchange rates 49  5 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Tables Table 1. Public development banks in the selected group of countries and their size in assets under management (AUM) 21 Table A A.1. Exchange rate, national currency per USD 49 Figures Figure 1. Venture Capital investments by national VC funds in the selected group of countries, 2023 11 Figure 2. Venture capital investments by stage of investment, average 2018 - 2023 12 Figure 3. Evolution of venture capital investments by stage of investment, 2007-2023 14 Figure 4. Venture capital investments by sector across selected countries, average 2018-2023 16 Figure 5. Evolution of VC investment commitments by type of investor in Europe, 2007-2023 18 Figure 6. Funding sources in EU-28, Finland, France, Germany and the United Kingdom’s VC funds 19 Figure 7. BDC Capital’s assets under management, 2011-2024 (fiscal years) 23 Figure 8. TESI’s assets under management, 2018-2022 24 Figure 9. Bpifrance’s direct and indirect investment activities 27 Figure 10. Growth capital investments and seed capital investments at Bpifrance, 2008-2021 29 Figure 11. Canada’s VCAP fund-of-funds investments by province and sector, 2023 35 Boxes Box 1. Key definitions and terminology 9 Box 2. The origins of the VC industry in Israel: The Yozma Fund 17 Box 3. European Tech Champions Initiative (ETCI) 31 Box 4. The European Angels Fund (EAF) of the European Investment Fund (EIF) 31 Box 5. Asymmetric returns in Canada’s BDC government-mandated programmes 39 6  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Executive Summary Venture Capital (VC) can play an instrumental role in funding the growth of innovative start-ups and SMEs, which are important drivers of productivity growth and job creation in OECD economies. While it is one of the main sources of non-debt finance and constitutes an important instrument in the potential financing mix for SMEs, uptake by SMEs remains limited. In response, governments have taken actions to support the development of VC markets and access by SMEs, in line with the OECD Recommendation on SME Financing. Despite a recent decline in VC investments, following the 2022 energy crisis and the high-interest rate environment that followed, the VC industry has experienced remarkable growth over the past 15 years. This growth has been propelled by expansive monetary policy and increased participation of institutional investors and governments in VC markets. On the demand side, the growing number of start-ups based on intangible assets, especially in information and technology sectors, has also been an important driver of VC growth. In the nine countries analysed for this report (Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States), findings show that VC investment is predominantly directed toward start-up/early-stage and late-stage businesses, due to larger investment sizes and the higher risk associated with seed-stage investments. The size of VC markets relative to GDP is smaller in Europe than in the United States and, to a lesser extent, Canada. A key structural difference is the stronger participation of non-traditional investors, such as sovereign wealth funds and corporations, in the US market compared to Europe, resulting in a larger number of VC mega-rounds in the United States. Across the nine countries covered, VC is often concentrated in sectors with strong growth prospects and heavy reliance on intangible assets such as ICT, healthcare and biotechnology. Government involvement in VC markets has increased over the past decade, with public development banks (PDBs) playing a key role, as measured by increasing investment commitments and assets under management (AUM), although there are some exceptions, such as the United States and Israel. Governments primarily invest indirectly through private VC funds and funds-of-funds, although in some countries, such as Canada, France, and Germany, direct investments remain significant. The rise in indirect investments has been accompanied by a shift toward growth-stage funding, especially in Europe, with a view to supporting business scale-up. In some countries, institutional investors, especially pension funds, have actively participated in government VC policies by subscribing to government-owned VC funds or government-backed private funds. This has been the case especially in Nordic countries, with Denmark leading in pension fund participation in government-backed VC. At the European level, institutions such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Investment Fund (EIF) are actively involved in government VC policies by matching national resources to create an integrated capital market. From a national perspective, one of the main benefits of EU VC funding has been de-risking and diversification of investments. In recent years, the investment activity of both EIB  7 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 and EIF has increasingly been geared towards green objectives, including industry decarbonization and environmental sustainability. Because public VC investment programmes are mandated to generate returns for governments, they are often sector-neutral and tend to reflect market trends. This also results from government VC investments almost always matching private VC investments. However, national governments are also leveraging some of their VC activities to steer investments toward new strategic sectors and technologies, such as green-tech and deep-tech. Additionally, public development banks and other government investors are mainstreaming Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) considerations into many of their VC activities. In some cases, government VC policies aim to promote regional and social development objectives, in this case, expected returns are often lower than those in other programmes. The main rationale behind these special programmes is the concentration of equity finance in certain regions, and the male-dominance in the VC industry, which can hinder growth-oriented companies in peripheral regions and successful women entrepreneurs from accessing risk capital. Among the countries analysed, the VC policies of Sweden, the United Kingdom and France have shown the strongest regional dimension, while Sweden and Canada have VC programmes that have set specific inclusion targets and objectives. In terms of the governance of the public VC programmes, findings show that boards of directors in Public Development Banks and other government VC investment authorities tend to include both public and private sector representatives, although executive roles stay within the government. Aside from very large investments, most investment decisions are made at the technical level of investment committees, based on recommendations from VC fund managers. Government VC investment decisions are generally taken with a view to maximising returns, within the legal boundaries set out by government VC guidelines. Across most countries covered, governments are minority investors, co-investing with private-sector funds. Government selection criteria for direct and indirect investments are quite standard across countries and include past performance, expected future growth, size, industry, and investment exit opportunities. In the case of indirect investment, the experience of private VC funds is also an important criterion. Investment conditions in government-sponsored VC programmes may follow pari-passu conditions, by which public and private investors receive equal returns/losses treatment, or “asymmetric returns”, where private investors receive preferential treatment as an incentive to invest, alongside the public sector, in sectors and technologies which the government wants to prioritise. Pari-passu conditions predominate in France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark, and Finland, although programme exceptions exist in the last three countries. In Canada, on the other hand, asymmetric returns have been used in government-mandated programmes. Finally, government VC programmes often include a “geographical clause” to ensure that public funding is not allocated to foreign-owned companies. This is especially relevant in fund-of-funds programmes, because domestic private VC funds may also invest abroad, and because governments, especially in countries with smaller VC industries, may have an interest in attracting foreign VC funds to invest in domestic companies. Although such clauses are common, they take very different forms across different institutions. Building on this paper, the OECD Committee on SMEs and Entrepreneurship will continue work to foster a diverse range of financing instruments and sources for SMEs and entrepreneurs, in line with the OECD Recommendation on SME Financing, in order to strengthen their resilience and contributions to productivity, employment and economic growth 8  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Diversification in the sources of SME financing has been a longstanding priority of the OECD Committee on SMEs and Entrepreneurship (CSMEE). There is substantial evidence that SMEs largely rely on debt finance, especially bank loans, to finance business operations and growth. This can lead to over-indebtedness and increased bankruptcy risks, especially during economic downturns and periods of high interest rates when banks are less inclined to extend credit and/or the cost of servicing debt is higher. Liquidity support measures (e.g. grants and concessional loans), used widely during the COVID-19 crisis and the post-pandemic phase, have further underlined the need for diversification in the sources of SME financing. Alternative sources of finance are especially important for innovative start-ups, whose business models are more likely to rely on intangible assets, which are difficult to use as collateral, and whose growth needs are ill-suited for bank financing. Although these firms are a small fraction of the whole business population, they are a major source of productivity growth and job creation, making non-debt finance a key enabler of economic growth. The OECD Recommendation on SME Financing, adopted by the OECD Council meeting at Ministerial level in June 2023, encourages governments to promote alternative sources of SME financing, including equity and quasi-equity instruments. The OECD Recommendation highlights that access to a broad range of SME financing instruments is desirable to strengthen the capital structure of SMEs. It also calls on governments to increase awareness of available financing options in the entrepreneurial population and to attract a wide range of investors, including institutional investors, in the SME asset class. Against this backdrop, equity finance is a key source of non-debt finance, playing an important role in developing the innovative and entrepreneurial components of the economy. As such, it has attracted a high level of attention (and investments) in OECD economies in the last decade. This paper presents a comparative analysis of government venture capital (VC) programmes across nine OECD countries where governments actively support the supply of equity finance to start-ups and growth-oriented SMEs. The paper is the result of a project undertaken with the support of France’s public development bank, Bpifrance, and the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). It builds on case studies of 9 countries: Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States. These case studies present information on main recent VC market trends and recent developments in government VC policies across the selected countries. Shorter versions of these profiles are available online. The methodology underlying the country profiles consisted mainly of desk research, complemented by feedback from CSMEE delegates and relevant national authorities in the studied countries. As the nine countries covered in the case studies have comparatively well-developed VC markets and VC policies, they offer a relevant overview of major recent developments in government VC policies. The paper is organised in three sections. Section 2 presents trends in VC markets across the nine selected countries, showing that VC investment volumes have increased considerably since the 2008 Great Financial Crisis benefiting from a long period of loose monetary policies and the growing participation of institutional investors (e.g. pension funds, sovereign funds, insurance companies, etc.) in the VC asset class. It also comments on the recent downturn in VC due to a macroeconomic environment characterised by inflation and interest rates at levels not seen in the last decade in most OECD economies (OECD, 2024[1]). Section 3 shows policy trends in VC policies across the nine countries, including government 1 Introduction  9 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 preferences between direct and indirect investments, industries, and stages of investment. Section 4 provides a deep dive into how governments concretely manage national VC programmes, including how investment decisions are made, and which investment terms and conditions prevail (e.g. with respect to the distribution of returns between the government and private investors). Box 1. Key definitions and terminology This paper draws a major distinction between direct and indirect investments. Direct investments refer to investments which are directly undertaken by government-owned funds in selected companies, often in light of their growth potential in sectors that are considered strategic by the national government. Direct investments are also sometimes aimed at restructuring industrial companies, although this dimension of government investment is not covered in this paper. Indirect investments refer to government equity investments in private-sector VC funds or funds-of-funds; the latter are funds taking equity participations in a pool of private VC funds. In either case, governments may or may not sit in the management board of the private VC fund and may or may not have (minority) voting rights. Government representatives generally do not interfere with the investment decisions of private fund managers. Governments are limited partners (LP) in the VC funds, with legal responsibility limited to the sums invested, whereas the fund managers are the General Partners (GP), with full legal liability for the operations of the fund. Another common distinction in the paper is between seed, early and late-stage (growth) investment, which is the conventional classification of VC investments over the lifecycle of a business. Seed capital is the money raised by entrepreneurs to start developing a business product or idea and/or to launch a business. Early-stage funding generally targets businesses which have already tested prototypes, refined their service model, and prepared the business plan. Finally, late/growth stage investments are meant to support the expansion of businesses which already have functioning business models and products. Finally, VC investment statistics reflect the country in which the invested company is based, regardless of the location of the private equity fund making the investment (OECD, 2024[2]) The data is obtained through the census of Private Equity (PE) and Venture Capital (VC) firms identified by national or regional venture capital associations (e.g. Invest Europe or the US National Venture Capital Association). 10  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 VC markets experienced rapid expansions until 2021 Venture capital (VC) has grown remarkably in the last fifteen years. In 2020, USD 336 billion were invested in 26 800 start-ups, compared with USD 31 billion in 3 500 start-ups in 2006. Year 2021 was a particularly exceptional year, with USD 669 billion invested in 30 500 start-ups (Crunchbase, 2022[3]). On the supply side, expansive monetary policies, including historically low-interest rates for a long period of time, led to an increased appetite for riskier investments, including by large institutional investors such as pension funds, mutual funds and sovereign wealth funds (Bellavitis and Matanova, 2017[4]) (Lerner and Nanda, 2020[5]), resulting in increased liquidity in VC markets. Regulatory reforms allowing institutional investors to invest part of their capital in VC assets have supported this trend. On the demand side, the growing number of start-ups built on intangible assets has also been an important driver (Morgan Stanley, 2020[6]) (Haskel and Westlake, 2018[7]), as equity finance is particularly suited for this business model. Over the past 25 years, in fact, the share of investments in intangible assets out of the total reached 29% in the United States and 10 European countries1 (Mckinsey, 2021[8]). More recently, following the COVID-19 crisis and above all the energy crisis of 2022, this upward trend came to an end, because of higher inflation and higher interest rates that increased the attractiveness of fixed-return assets (e.g. bonds). In 2023, these new conditions were affecting start-up valuations and the returns of VC funds, as well as the perceptions of General Partners (GP) about the overall health of the fundraising environment (EIF, 2023[9]) (Crunchbase, 2024[10]). Across the nine countries covered in this paper (Figure 1), in 2023, the United States stood out with VC investment volumes worth EUR 123 billion, followed by Israel (EUR 14 billion) and Canada (EUR 4.6 billion). The United Kingdom, Germany and France followed, with investment volumes between EUR 3.7 billion and 1.6 billion. Finally, in the three Nordic countries, Denmark registered EUR 0.5 billion of VC investments, Sweden EUR 0.3 billion and Finland EUR 178 million. According to the 2024 edition of the OECD Financing SMEs and Entrepreneurs Scoreboard, in 2022, VC volumes declined by 16.2% on a year-on-year basis, although they were still significantly higher (+40%) than in 2020 (OECD, 2024[1]). The recent decline has affected all investment stages, although late-stage investments (series C or later) were hit the most (Crunchbase, 2022[11]). This may be explained by late-stage start-ups being more affected than early-stage start-ups by macroeconomic conditions – i.e., the former have already more established business operations than the latter – and by lower VC engagement of institutional investors, who are more inclined to funding late-stage investments but who have more recently diverted some of their investments away from VC assets into fixed-return products (Pitchbook and NVCA, 2023[12]). 2 Recent trends in venture capital markets  11 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Figure 1. Venture Capital investments by national VC funds in the selected group of countries, 2023 EUR Million Note: Data corresponds to investments from VC funds. It includes only venture capital investments by formal fund managers, including private equity funds making private equity investments. Investments by business angels, incubators, infrastructure funds, real estate funds, distress debt funds, primary funds-of-funds or secondary funds-of-funds are excluded. Data from Israel corresponds to 2022, as data from 2023 was not available. Source: Venture Capital Investments (market statistics), OECD Enterprise Statistics Database (OECD, 2023[13]). Data from the United States in the OECD Enterprise Statistics database is produced by NVCA in cooperation with PitchBook. VC markets are largely focused on start-up/early and late-stage investments VC investment volumes are mostly concentrated in start-up/early-stage and late-stage investments, which is the result of both stages attracting, on average, larger investment tickets than seed investments, as well as of the higher risk associated with the seed stage (Figure 2). In particular, across the nine countries covered in this analysis, the share of seed stage over total VC investments between 2018 and 2023 was on average 7.5%, while start-up/early stage and late stage received similar shares of 45.3% and 47%. Finland, Denmark and the United States are the countries with the highest proportions of seed investments (between 10% and 12%) over the last six years, followed by Canada and France (between 8% and 9%). On the other hand, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and Germany all have seed shares below 7%. The highest share of “start-up/early stage” is found in Sweden, followed closely by Germany (over 50%). The United Kingdom, Canada and Denmark follow with between 47% and 50%. Finally, Israel, the United States and France are the countries where the shares of late-stage VC investments are the largest (between 55% and 59%). These figures are influenced by many factors. For example, mature markets such as those of the United States and Israel may help explain the low shares of seed investments2 and the high shares of late-stage investments, since more start-ups have evolved through the different stages of investment. In addition, in the United States, there has been a significant decline in the number of initial public offerings (IPOs), which means more VC-backed companies are unlisted for a longer period, thus lifting the demand for late-stage investments (Ritter, 2023[14])3. On the supply side, the increasing participation of institutional investors, which tend to invest larger sums than more traditional VC companies (Lerner and Nanda, 2020[5]), also 12  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 explains the prevalence of late-stage investments. For example, in Sweden, VC investments by national pension funds have almost duplicated in 10 years (Nordsip, 2023[15]). Figure 2. Venture capital investments by stage of investment, average 2018 - 2023 Percentage of total VC investments Note: Data corresponds to investments from VC funds. It includes only venture capital investments by formal fund managers, including private equity funds making private equity investments. Investments by business angels, incubators, infrastructure funds, real estate funds, distress debt funds, primary funds-of-funds or secondary funds-of-funds are excluded. As there are no harmonized definitions of venture capital stages across venture capital associations and other data providers, original data have been re-aggregated to fit the OECD classification of venture capital by stages. Seed capital is funding raised to start developing a product or idea. Early-stage funding is allocated to businesses that have tested prototypes and prepared a business plan, and late-growth stage is meant to support business expansion. Calculations from Israel are based on VC investment volumes in 2020 as data from seed stage was not available for more recent years. Source: Venture Capital Investments (market statistics), OECD Enterprise Statistics database (OECD, 2023[13]). Data from the United States in the OECD Enterprise Statistics database is produced by NVCA in cooperation with PitchBook. Growth in VC investments has also mostly been driven by start-up/early-stage and late-stage VC investments. Figure 3 shows the evolution of VC investments, in relation to GDP, by stage of investment from 2007 to 2023. A first clear point is that European VC markets are smaller than those in the United States, Israel and, to a lesser extent, Canada4, with cross-country differences most notable in the start-up/early stage and in the late stage, since seed investments contribute a much smaller share of total VC investments. These differences are also supported by industry statistics. While European VC funds rarely manage more than EUR 500 million, multi-billion funds are common in the United States (German Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, 2022[16]). Similarly, the largest VC companies in the United States have assets under management (AUM) worth EUR 85 billion5, while those in Europe only reach EUR 4.5 billion (German Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, 2022[16]). One reason is the stronger participation of non-traditional investors in VC markets in the United States compared to Europe. As mentioned above, in the United States, the decline in IPOs has translated into more firms remaining private for longer periods  13 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 of time. This has led to a growing share of investors who had traditionally focused only on public markets to start investing also into the VC asset class, resulting in a growing number of VC mega-rounds6 (Lerner and Nanda, 2020[5]). In the United States, the number of mega-rounds increased from a quarterly average of 25 in 2014 to 74.5 in 2019, while in Europe they inched up from 7.5 (quarterly average) in 2014 to 13.5 in 2019 (Dealroom, 2019[17]). Altogether, this points to less late-stage growth capital for European companies, which may increase the risk of growing businesses leaving Europe to benefit from foreign VC investments (Hellmann and Thiele, 2023[18]). This also helps explain the increasing focus of European governments in late-stage investments (see Section 3 of the paper). Differences in the size of the US and European VC markets are also explained by the performance of local VC funds and by the fact that VC markets are strongly interconnected at global level. There are consistent cross-investment routes, especially between hubs with long-standing traditions and higher-than-average performance. Calculations from the British Business Bank on the TVPI (Total Value to Paid-In)7 across funds in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Europe show that those in the United States do better. Between 2002 and 2018, US VC funds exhibited a higher pooled TVPI of 2.14, compared to 2.06 for UK funds and 2.04 for European funds (British Business Bank, 2023[19]). This indicates that, on average, US funds have generated higher total value relative to the invested capital compared to funds in the UK and Europe. To strengthen emerging national hubs and cross-investment routes across Europe, the European Investment Fund (EIF) supports the interconnection of EU VC markets through a series of programmes outlined in Section 3 of the paper (EIF / Invest Europe, 2023[20]). 14  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Figure 3. Evolution of venture capital investments by stage of investment, 2007-2023 Percentage of GDP Note: Data corresponds to investments from VC funds. It includes only venture capital investments by formal fund managers, including private equity funds making private equity investments. Investments by business angels, incubators, infrastructure funds, real estate funds, distress debt funds, primary funds-of-funds or secondary funds-of-funds are excluded. As there are no harmonized definitions of venture capital stages across venture capital associations and other data providers, original data have been re-aggregated to fit the OECD classification of venture capital by stages. Seed capital is funding raised to start developing a product or idea. Early-stage funding is allocated to businesses that have tested prototypes and prepared a business plan, and late-growth stage is meant to support business expansion. Israel has missing data from 2014 until 2019 in seed stage. Source: Venture Capital Investments (market statistics), OECD Enterprise Statistics database (OECD, 2023[13]). Data from the United States in the OECD Enterprise Statistics database is produced by NVCA in cooperation with PitchBook.  15 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 VC investments are concentrated in certain technologies and sectors VC investments are also concentrated in terms of industry, which is the result of equity finance being most suited for sectors that rely more on intangible assets and innovative business models and in which growth prospects are stronger in the short-to-medium term. Because VC profits come in the form of capital gains, VC investors are generally interested in fast-growing companies (35 to 40% internal rate of return) (Casson et al., 2009[21]), with large market potential (scalable) and a sustainable competitive advantage (innovative or disruptive business plans) (OECD, 2015[22]) (Lerner and Nanda, 2020[5]). VC investments by sector follow similar patterns across European countries (Figure 4). Between 2018 and 2023, on average, ICT companies attracted 47.4% of VC investments, with national values ranging between 34.5% in Denmark and 59.7% in Finland. Healthcare, including biotechnology, was the second-highest recipient of VC investments in Europe, concentrating on average 21.8% of VC investments. Denmark clearly plays a leading role in this sector, attracting 42.2% of total domestic VC investments in biotech and healthcare, followed by Sweden and the United Kingdom with respective shares of 23.3% and 22.9% of the total. Finally, “business and consumer goods and services” are particularly strong in Finland and France, pulling in respectively an average of 13.2% and 8.2% of total VC investments. Although comparison with non-EU countries is not possible due to differences in the sector classification, there is a similar allocation of VC funding outside Europe. In the United States, software, pharmaceuticals, and biotech have been the sectors concentrating the highest amounts of venture capital in the last 10 years (Pitchbook and NVCA, 2023[23]). In Canada, ICT accounted for 58% of total VC funding in 2023 (Canadian Venture Capital and Private Equity Association, 2023[24]). In Israel, the enterprise software industry accounted for most VC investments after security, totalling USD 929 million in the first half of 2024, followed by healthcare and Fintech, with total respective investments of USD 805 million and USD 316 (Dealroom, 2024[25]). 16  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Figure 4. Venture capital investments by sector across selected countries, average 2018-2023 Percentage of total VC investments Note: Venture Capital Investments are according to the country in which the investee company is based, regardless of the location of the private equity fund. Source: InvestEurope, 2024.  17 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 The role of governments in VC markets has grown in the last fifteen years Governments, especially in Europe and Canada, have taken an increasingly active role in VC markets, whereas the VC industries of the United States and Israel are largely driven by the private sector. In particular, following the successful experience of the Yozma Fund in the 1990s (see Box 2), the Israeli government kept an arm’s length relationship with the VC market for over 20 years, without direct investments in start-ups or private VC funds. More recently, in January 2023, the Israeli government launched the Yozma 2.0 Fund to invest in private VC funds and the Startup Fund, which will provide grants to start-ups that receive investments from private VC funds. In the case of the United States, federal equity finance initiatives are small scale relative to the size of the economy, are often part of broader programmes providing both debt and equity finance and mostly target existing small businesses rather than start-ups. For example, one of the US flagship programmes, the US Small Business Investment Company (SBIC), had only 43% of its financing in the form of equity or semi-equity finance, such as convertible debt, the rest being channelled through traditional debt finance products (SBA, 2014[26]). In Europe and Canada, on the other hand, governments have taken an increasingly active role in VC markets. For example, in Europe, VC investment commitments by government agencies have grown nearly sixfold between 2007 and 2023 (see Figure 5), supporting the development and stabilisation of domestic VC markets8 (OECD, forthcoming[27]). 3 Recent trends in government venture capital policies Box 2. The origins of the VC industry in Israel: The Yozma Fund The government of Israel played an important pump-priming role for the domestic VC market through the creation of the Yozma Fund in the 1990s. The first version of this Fund was launched in 1993, while the second vintage closely after in 1995. The Yozma Fund was mostly a government fund of fund (f-o-f) investing USD 100 million (the first edition) in ten new private VC funds in Israel, each of which had an initial capital investment of about USD 20 million, including both public and private resources. Each of the ten funds was required by the law to have three different partners: domestic VC investors, a foreign VC fund/company and an Israeli investment company/bank. The objective of this initiative was to support through public resources the development of the domestic VC industry while attracting foreign capital and knowledge to set this industry on solid grounds. Government participation in the VC funds was on a 50-50 ratio with private investors. However, private investors were given the option of buying out the government share of the fund after five years if the fund proved successful, which they did in most cases, thus favouring the full privatisation of the Israeli VC industry in a few years. Investment decisions were mainly taken by the 18  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Figure 5. Evolution of VC investment commitments by type of investor in Europe, 2007-2023 Million EUR Note: The institutional investors category includes pension funds and insurance companies; asset managers include family offices, fund-of-funds and other asset managers, including PE houses other than fund-of-funds; the “other” category includes capital markets, foundations, academic institutions, and sovereign wealth funds. Source: Invest Europe, 2024 In Germany, for example, the public sector was the principal source of fundraising for domestic VC funds, accounting for 16% of the total EUR 5.8 billion raised over the 2017-2019 period followed by insurance companies/pension funds and enterprises, contributing respectively 15% and 13% (Figure 6). While the amount of private funding is likely to be underestimated due to the large share of VC fundraising whose origins are unclear – government equity transactions are more transparent than private-sector deals due to different disclosure requirements – at least 31% of total VC fundraising in Germany originated from government and institutional investors (KfW, 2020[29]). Similarly, in France, the public sector played an important role in VC fundraising, accounting for 23% of total raised VC funds over the period 2017-2019, followed by “family offices and private investors” and businesses, which both accounted for 20% of total raised VC funds. On the other hand, the role of the public sector in VC fundraising is much smaller in the international partners, who showed a preference for ITC and life sciences during the two editions of the programme. The Yozma Fund also included an additional direct investment fund of USD 20 million, as well as equity guarantees for foreign investors, initiatives to connect Israeli firms with foreign business angels and VC funds, and assistance for companies wanting to launch their initial public offering (IPO) in foreign stock exchanges. Similarly, the programme developed close relationships with technology universities and business incubators in its quest for investment opportunities. The Israeli government closed the Yozma Fund in the late 1990s and did not support the VC market in the form of equity participation for over twenty years, although it remained very actively engaged in broader innovation and technology policies. More recently, in early 2023, the government established the Yozma Fund 2.0, although the new fund is much smaller in scale relative to the overall size of the domestic VC market than its predecessor. Source: (OECD, 2016[28])  19 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 United Kingdom, accounting for 8% of total raised VC funds. In the UK, “insurance and pension funds” and “family offices and private investors” contributed a greater share of raised VC funds, 13% and 12% respectively (KfW, 2020[29]). Figure 6. Funding sources in EU-28, Finland, France, Germany and the United Kingdom’s VC funds Percentage of the total Note: Data from EU-28, France, Germany and the UK are the average from 2017 to 2019. Data from Finland is the average from 2019 to 202. Public sector as a funding source typically refers to the national government, although for European countries it may also include EIF funding and for some countries, especially federal ones, also investments by regional governments. Source: (KfW, 2020[29]), (Finnish Venture Capital Association, 2022[30]) In the case of smaller countries, which tend to have fewer private investors, the weight of the government in VC investment activity can be even larger. In Finland, the public sector accounted for 30% of VC domestic fundraising in 2022, up from an average of 23% in the period 2019-2021 (Finnish Venture Capital Association, 2022[30]). The following largest investors were also in this case insurance companies (12%) and pension funds (11%). While it has not been possible to retrieve the same type of aggregate information for the other countries covered in the analysis, these figures suggest that, at least in Europe, governments are an important source of VC funding, accounting for 15-35% of total fundraising activity (EIF, 2023[31]). Government VC investments are often channelled through public development banks Public development banks (PDB) are the most active government investors in venture capital, although they are also sometimes paired with other institutions, either at national or subnational level. Indeed, there is clear evidence that the role of PDBs in the VC industry has grown constantly over the last decade, as shown by increasing investment commitments and assets under management (AUM). Many of these public financial institutions have set up specific subsidiaries to deal with the growing investment flow and to separate VC activities from debt financing programmes, which have also traditionally played an important role in these institutions. 20  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 For example, in 2018, Germany’s KfW (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, Credit Institute for Reconstruction) established KfW Capital, which only invests through participation in VC funds (i.e., no direct investments). The British Business Bank (BBB) delivers most of its VC programmes through two subsidiaries, British Business Investment (BBI) and British Patient Capital (BPC), which were both established in recent years following the Patient Capital Review (PCR) completed by the UK government in 2017 (UK Department of Business and Trade, 2017[32]). France’s Bpifrance also has its own investment branch (Bpifrance Investissement), which is separated from other financing activities (Bpifrance Financement). In the case of Denmark, the Danish Growth Fund (DGF) has recently been merged with the export credit agency to create the Export and Investment Fund (EIFO), which presents itself as the national promotional bank and export credit agency combined in one financial institution. However, the two activities (VC investment and export credit) continue to be distinct and managed independently by different teams in the same institution. In Canada, the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC), which is also in the business of debt financing, runs its investment operations through its subsidiary BDC Capital. While PDBs are the most common government investors, some countries have taken different institutional approaches to government VC policies. In Finland, the main government investor is TESI (Finnish Industry Investment Ltd), which is a state-owned investment company specialised in equity investments. Sweden has two main state-owned investment/venture capital companies: Saminvest, mostly active in the support of private VC funds (indirect investment), and Almi Invest, mostly active in direct equity participations in Swedish start-ups. Germany also has more than one single main government VC institution. Indirect investments by KfW Capital are complemented by the High-Tech Grunderfonds (HTGF, High-Tech Founder’s Fund), which has invested directly in start-ups since 2005 and is a public-private investment company with participation from the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action, KfW, VC investors and industrial companies. In addition, the DeepTech & Climate Fund (DTCF) started its investment activities in February 2023 and complements the HTGF and KfW Capital by co-investing directly in deep-tech companies. In the case of the United States, where government-backed equity finance programmes are not very developed, the main federal institution is the national SME agency (i.e., Small Business Administration, SBA) which runs, among others, the Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) programme and the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) programme. In the case of the Netherlands, the main VC investment company is Invest-NL, a private company financed with public funds from the Ministry of Finance, which is the main shareholder. Invest-NL provides support both through direct and indirect channels (Invest-NL, 2023[33]). The rest of this section provides further details on investment commitments and assets under management (AUM) of the main government VC institutions across the countries covered in this analysis. Table 1 provides a summary of this information.  21 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Table 1. Public development banks in the selected group of countries and their size in assets under management (AUM) Establishment date AUM (local currency) AUM (USD) AUM (% of GDP) Canada’s BDC Capital 19959 CAD 6.9 bn. (2024) USD 5.14 bn. 0.24% Denmark’s EIFO equity investments 2023 DKK 3.1 bn. (2023)10 USD 4.53 bn. 0.11% Finland’s TESI 1995 EUR 2.5 bn. (2022) USD 2.63 bn. 0.93% France’s Bpifrance Investissement (VC activities only) 2012 EUR 16 bn (2023) USD 17 bn. 0.57% Germany’s KfW Capital 2018 EUR 0.9 bn. (2022) USD 0.95 bn. 0.02% Sweden’s Almi Invest 2009 SEK 3.5 bn (2023) USD 0.33 bn. 0.06% Sweden’s Saminvest 2016 SEK 9.5 bn (2023) USD 0.89 bn. 0.15% United Kingdom’s BBB 2014 GBP 1.9 bn. (2022) USD 2.34 bn. 0.08% United States Small Business Investment Company 1958 USD 26 bn (2019)11 USD 26 bn. 0.0012% Note: The AUM of Bpifrance include only Venture Capital Germany (KfW Capital and High-Tech Grüunderfonds) Germany’s fund-of-funds investments are undertaken by KfW Capital, often in partnership with the European Investment Fund (EIF) ERP Facility12, whereas the longstanding High-Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) programme and the new independent Deep-Tech & Climate Fund (DTCF) are mostly active in direct investments. KfW is one of the oldest and largest PDBs in Europe. Its main shareholders are the federal government (80%) and regional governments (20%). Germany’s federal government established KfW Capital in 2018 to expand the VC market of Germany, notably through better coverage of the scale-up phase. KfW Capital only invests in private VC funds, with funding mostly coming from a special fund of the European Recovery Plan (ERP) and the federal Future Fund, which has committed EUR 10 billion to growth capital financing until 2030. In its first five years of operations, between 2018 and 2023, KfW Capital invested more than EUR 1.9 billion in over 100 VC funds,13 around half of which are based in Germany14￼, which had in turn invested more than four times this amount in private companies. As of 2022, KfWKimmo, 2023[34￼, including some investments in the HTGFs. The High-Tech Grunderfonds (HTGF) complements KfW Capital’s activity by investing directly in high-tech start-ups across different sectors and regions of Germany. Since the establishment of the first HTGF in 2005, there have been four vintages of this programme (2005-11-17-21), which has invested in more than 750 companies and successfully exited 180 of them. As of 2024, the AUM of the HTGFs were more than EUR 2 billion, thus outstripping those of KfW Capital15. As to the DTCF, its AUM were in the range of EUR 1 billion. In the mid-2010s, when only the first two editions of the HTGF had been launched, an independent evaluation showed that the HTGFs accounted for 50% of total seed investments in Germany and for 20% of early-stage financing by institutional VC and private equity (PE) investors (Technopolis, 2016[35]). In the context of Germany, regional promotional banks also have a role in the VC policy landscape16, although this is more common in the most developed regions and mostly take the form of direct investments (e.g., NRW Bank in North-Rhine Westphalia and LfA Förderbank in Bavaria). 22  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 The United Kingdom (British Business Bank) British Business Bank (BBB) is the main government VC investor in the United Kingdom. The BBB is a relatively recent institution created in 2014 to support SME development through improved access to finance. As of March 2022, eight years from its establishment, the BBB had reached GBP 4.14 billion of AUM, which were broadly equally split between lending (GBP 2.2 billion, 54% of the total) and equity investments (GBP 1.9 billion, 46% of the total) (British Business Bank, 2022[36]). In 2022, BBB’s total commitments were GBP 1.95 billion, up from GBP 1.85 billion in 2021. As of 2021, the British Business Bank was the largest institutional investor in UK VC funds, both in terms of committed funding and number of supported funds. Also, between 2019 and 2021, the BBB had supported 14% of all announced equity deals (including both direct and indirect investments) at national level (British Business Bank, 2022[37]). The BBB runs most of its VC programmes through two subsidiaries, British Patient Capital (BPC) and British Bank Investments (BBI), which were both established after the UK Government’s Patient Capital Review of 2017, which had identified a financing gap in the scale-up phase corresponding to investment tickets of GBP 5 million and above. BPC received an initial capital investment of GBP 2.5 billion in 2018 and was expected to unlock an additional GBP of 5 billion from private investors (1:2 leverage ratio). As of 2022, BPC’s total investments had reached GBP 1.6 billion, while AUM were GBP 3.1 billion, mostly dispersed across 61 different private VC funds (Kimmo, 2023[34]). The BBI, on the other hand, aims to increase the volume and diversity of finance for smaller businesses by enabling the growth of new and alternative finance providers. As such, it works not only with VC funds, but also with Fintech organisations, second-tier banks, etc. Its main VC programme is the Managed Fund Programme, which follows a fund-of-fund approach. The BBB also manages one of the most longstanding VC programmes in the United Kingdom, i.e., the Enterprise Capital Funds (ECF) programme. This scheme, which has been in place since 2006, aims to lower barriers for new fund managers entering the VC market. Under the ECF scheme, fund managers need to raise at least one third of their capital from private sources (Ipsos Mori; George Barret, 2021[38]). In November 2023, the UK government announced that BBB would also set up a new fund for pension schemes and asset managers to invest in growth companies, part of wider reforms to unlock savings to support the economy. Canada (BDC Capital) The investment branch of Canada’s public development bank, BDC Capital, also plays a very prominent role in the national equity landscape, although there are also smaller government VC investors at both federal (Export Development Corporation, EDC) and provincial (Venture Ontario and Alberta Enterprise Corporation) levels. As of June 2023, BDC Capital had CAD 1.4 billion of direct investment commitments (through 18 active BDC funds investing in 227 companies) and CAD 1.7 billion of indirect investment commitments (through 127 private VC funds and funds of funds investing in 578 companies). Besides these investment activities, BDC Capital also implements so-called “government mandates”. Government mandates are VC programmes directly established by the federal government of Canada (e.g., Venture Capital Action Plan, VCAP, Venture Capital Catalyst Initiative, VCCI, and Renewed-VCCI) which have specific investment guidelines (e.g., in terms of sector, environmental or equity objectives) and are delivered in collaboration with federal departments such as the Innovation Science and Economic Development (ISED) department. The main objective of government mandates is to support the development of the overall VC ecosystem and, as such, they may have lower return expectations or longer investment time horizons than BDC’s other investment activities. As of 2023, government mandates represented an additional CAD 1.8 billion of commitments, mostly spread through indirect investments. Altogether, in 2023, BDC’s total commitments were, therefore, CAD 4.9 billion. BDC Capital’s AUM have also increased considerably in the last decade, from CAD 0.8 billion in 2011 to CAD 6.9 billion in 2024 (Figure 7). In 2023, BDC Capital  23 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 was a limited partner in private VC funds representing 62% of capital being actively invested in Canada (BDC, 2023[39]). Figure 7. BDC Capital’s assets under management, 2011-2024 (fiscal years) CAD billions Note: BDC Capital includes direct investment funds such as the Growth Venture Co-Investment Fund (GVCF), Women in Technology Venture Fund (WIT), Thrive Platform for Women, Climate Tech Fund, Sustainability Venture Fund, and the Deep Tech Venture Fund, as well as the government mandated programs of the Venture Capital Action Plan (VCAP), Venture Capital Catalyst Initiative (VCCI), Indigenous Growth Fund (IGF), and the Cleantech Practice. For indirect investments (including VCAP and VCCI), assets under management correspond to the capital committed by BDC to funds that have been closed. Amounts are included according to the year in which the funds were created. Source: (Business Development Bank of Canada, 2023[40]). France (Bpifrance) Bpifrance’s investment activities are run by its subsidiary Bpifrance Investissement. Focusing on activities in the VC segment, Bpifrance’s AUM (stocks) stemming from direct investments amounted to EUR 7 billion in 2023, while those from funds-of-funds assets corresponded to EUR 9 billion. In the start-up segment, the financing amounts provided by Bpifrance (including grants and direct investments) together with partner funds increased from about EUR 750 million to EUR 5.5 billion between 2010 and 2021, while the number of supported companies surged from about 1 900 to 4 700 (Bpifrance, 2023[41]). In terms of investment flows, in 2022, EUR 726 million was invested directly, and 27 new French VC funds were invested through funds of funds, gathering commitments of EUR 899 million. Denmark (DGF) In early 2023 the government of Denmark merged its two main investment funds (i.e. the Danish Growth Fund, DGF, and the Danish Green Investment Fund) and the Export Credit Agency to create one single public development bank, the Export and Investment Fund of Denmark (EIFO). Existing information on government VC activity, therefore, mostly concerns the DGF, whose activities will continue in the new organisational structure of EIFO. As of 2023, the AUM of EIFO’s equity branch stood at DKK 3.1 billion. The DGF was established in 1992 by the Danish Ministry of Industry, Business and Financial Affairs to improve access to finance for SMEs. As a result, the DGF has traditionally covered a wide array of financing tools, including debt products such as start-up loans, growth loans, venture debt loans and loan guarantees. 24  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 In the VC area, the DGF has invested both directly and (especially) indirectly. In 2021, the DGF had investments worth DKK 1.55 billion in a total of 25 VC funds, as well as DKK 0.51 billion invested directly in 35 companies, of which 11 were first-time investments (with investment tickets of DKK 5-20 million each) (Kimmo, 2023[34]). Since 2011, one important VC policy of the DGF has been the Danish Growth Capital (Dansk Vaekstkapital) programme, which has worked on a fund-of-funds model and whose three editions (2011, 2015 and 2021) have raised respectively DKK 4.1 billon, DKK 3 billion and DKK 2.4 billion. Especially the first two vintages of this programme have seen a strong participation of pension funds (25% and 35% respectively), which have mostly invested (three-quarters) through loans to private VC funds. Contrary to most government VC programmes, DGF, through the Danish Growth Capital programme, has also supported business buyouts, although this support is no longer provided. Finland (TESI) Public investment company TESI (Finnish Industry Investment Ltd.) is the main government VC investor in Finland, although the national business and investment promotion agency (Business Finland) also runs smaller VC programmes. TESI was set up in 1995 by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment with the objective of promoting the growth and internationalisation of Finnish companies and developing Finland’s VC and PE markets. As of 2023, TESI had EUR 2.5 billion of AUM and EUR 108 million of new investments and commitments 17. While new commitments are relatively small, AUM are quite large relative to the size of Finland’s economy. TESI’s AUM have doubled in size between 2018 and 2022, from EUR 1.2 billion to EUR 2.5 billion (Figure 8). The volumes of direct investments and EU funding both doubled between 2018 and 2022, while fund investments and fund-of-funds investments increased respectively by 82% and 63%. Nonetheless, if EU funding and the “other funding” category are excluded from the calculation, indirect investments still accounted for 77% of TESI investments in 2022. Figure 8. TESI’s assets under management, 2018-2022 EUR millions Source: (Niemi, 2023[42])  25 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Sweden (Almi Invest and Saminvest) Sweden’s case presents some analogies with Germany, since two different investment companies respectively specialises in direct and indirect investments. Almi Invest, established in 2009, invests directly in early-stage start-ups and, as of end-2023, managed assets worth SEK 3.5 billion through eight regional VC companies. Its typical investment ticket is quite small, between SEK 1-10 million, and mostly targets start-ups18. The more recent Saminvest Fund, launched in 2017, invests in private VC funds and business angel syndicates and, as of end-2023, managed assets worth SEK 6 billion19. As a result, the two funds together managed about SEK 9.5 billion (i.e., EUR 850 million) of assets in 2023, making Sweden’s government VC investments smaller than most other observed countries, including other Nordic countries like Finland and Denmark. Indirect investments have become increasingly prominent in government VC policies Although it has not always been possible to identify a clear split between government direct and indirect investment activities, indirect investments through government participation in private VC funds appear to have taken a more prominent role across the observed countries in recent years. Germany provides a good example of this trend. Through the EIF-ERP facility, the German government has invested in private VC funds since 2004. Over the years, the funding of this facility has progressively increased, reaching a total capacity of EUR 4.6 billion in 2023 (EIF, 2023[43]). In addition, as noted earlier, KfW Capital, established in 2018, only invests through participation in private VC funds, whereas the HTGFs, which date back to 2005, invest directly in start-ups. Furthermore, while the AUM of the HTGFs are still larger than those of KfW Capital (EUR 2.3 billion vs. EUR 0.9 billion), the new Future Fund established by the German government is set to tilt further government VC policies towards indirect investments. This new Fund, totalling EUR 10 billion, will invest by 2030 EUR 6 billion in private VC funds and funds of funds and EUR 2.3 billion directly in start-ups, with some of this funding feeding the HTGFs. Some of the direct funding will also go into semi-equity rather than equity instruments, such as bridge loans between different rounds of investment and post-IPO debt. The German Future Fund (alongside the ERP-Special Fund und the European Investment Fund) also finances the GFF EIF Growth Facility, which aims to secure growth- and late-stage financing for German start-ups. UK venture capital policies have traditionally been more inclined to indirect investments, since the creation of the Enterprise Capital Fund in 2006, which helps those looking to operate in the UK market to raise VC funds that target early-stage small businesses. Under this scheme, fund managers need to raise at least one-third of their total capital from private investors, with government capital playing a leverage effect that increases available funding for start-ups. The preference for indirect investments was further strengthened after the 2017 Patient Capital Review, which underscored the need to enhance scale-up finance in the United Kingdom. The main programmes of the two subsidiaries of BBB, BPC and BBI, all adopt an indirect approach to government VC investment. BPC investments take the form of commitments into fixed-term VC funds, although BPC is also open to a small number of direct co-investments, i.e. investments in companies already supported by BBB-backed funds20. BBI’s main VC programme, the Managed Fund Programme (MFP), adopts a fund-of-funds approach with a view to attracting institutional investors in the UK VC market (British Business Bank, 2022[37])21. The United Kingdom also has some direct investment programmes but, overall, they mobilise fewer resources than indirect investment programmes and have a strong regional dimension, such as the Regional Angels Programme and the Regional Funds, with the two main ones (e.g., the Northern Powerhouse Investment Fund and the Midlands Engine Investment Fund) that had received overall GBP 800 million between 2017 and 2018. A partial exception is the recent Future Fund Breakthrough, which 26  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 undertakes “direct co-investments”, i.e., investments in companies already financed through BBB-backed VC funds (like the Managed Fund Programme). Nordic countries provide additional examples of this trend. In Finland, TESI’s AUM from direct investment accounted for between 20-23% of the total between 2018 and 2022, with the rest coming from participation in private VC funds and funds-of-funds. In Denmark, the indirect-direct investment ratio of the Danish Growth Fund was 3:1 in 2021 (DNK 1.5 billion vs. DNK 0.5 billion), also thanks to the more recent Danish Growth Capital Programme, which adopts a fund-of-funds model. The strong involvement of pension funds in Denmark’s government VC policies may help explain this balance, as institutional investors tend to invest larger-than-average equity sums and see the VC asset class as a means to diversify investments. In the case of Sweden, in 2014, an evaluation of the National Audit Office concluded that government VC direct investment policies were scarcely effective due to an excessive fragmentation of government VC funds (Tillvaxtanalys, 2013[44]). As a result, the main direct government investment programmes were closed, while Saminvest, which follows a fund-of-funds model, was launched in 2016. As of 2023, Saminvest’s AUM were twice as large as those of Almi Invest (direct investments), SEK 6.5 billion vs. SEK 3 billion. There are some countries where direct VC investments still play a very important role Although in most countries there has been an increasing shift towards indirect investments, there are also some countries where direct investments continue to play an important role. In France, Bpifrance’s direct investments account for 45% of the total, the rest being funds-of-funds (55%) (Figure 9). This is the result of some large direct investment funds, such as the Large Venture Fund (EUR 1.75 billion), which only focuses on the growth stage and has funded 11 of the 31 French tech unicorns in 2022. Nonetheless, indirect investments have also grown significantly in France: commitments to new French VC funds increased from EUR 266 million in 2013 to EUR 899 million in 2022 (Bpifrance, 2023[45]) (Bpifrance, 2023[45]) .  27 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Figure 9. Bpifrance’s direct and indirect investment activities EUR Million (left axis), number of companies (right axis) Source: (Bpifrance, 2023[45]) In Canada, the mainstream VC investment activities of BDC Capital are almost equally divided between direct investments (CAD 1.4 billion) and indirect investments (CAD 1.7 billion). As a consequence, it is perhaps surprising that 62% of AUM at BDC Capital stemmed from direct investments in 2024, and that in the period 2011-2024, AUM from direct investments were always the majority, ranging between 77% (2012) and 52% (2015) of the total. In addition, BDC manages specific VC programmes on behalf of the federal government which have a clear preference for indirect investments. For example, the Venture Capital Action Plan (VCAP), established in 2014, invested CAD 340 million in four large private-sector funds of funds and CAD 50 million in four existing private VC funds. The two successor federal programmes, the Venture Capital Catalyst Initiative (VCCI) and the Renewed-VCCI, respectively launched in 2017 (CAD 371 million) and 2021 (CAD 450 million), have continued to privilege an indirect approach. In the United States, where government VC investments are limited, government-backed VC mostly takes the form of direct investment, possibly because the United States does not have a federal public development bank, and the few existing federal VC initiatives are often mixed with debt financing instruments. For example, the Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs), which are regulated by the federal SME agency (Small Business Administration, SBA), offer both debt and equity finance instruments; in 2013, equity and semi-equity instruments (e.g. convertible debt) represented about 40% of SBIC financing (SBA, 2014[26]). SBICs are privately-owned companies which act as investment funds. As of 2023, there were about 300 of them in the United States, with total AUM of USD 30 billion (SBIA, n.d.[46]). Similarly, Business Development Companies (BDCs), which are not licensed by the SBA, are public companies which provide debt and equity finance to SMEs. Under the current legislation, which was introduced in 1980, BDCs must invest at least 70% of their assets in non-listed US companies with market values of less than USD 250 million. Contrary to traditional VC funds, BDCs shares can be traded on stock exchanges and are open to retail investors, which makes this instrument quite unique in the landscape of government-backed VC policies. 28  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 The rise in VC indirect investments has been accompanied by a rise in growth-stage investments The rise in indirect investments has been accompanied by an increase of growth-stage investments by public VC funds, which reflect broader trends in VC markets and an effort to fill funding gaps at this stage. Growth-stage VC investments typically involve larger investment tickets than early-stage investments, which means that the size of the funding round is more easily reached when different investors partner together. In this respect, public VC funds can have an important leveraging effect, helping private VC funds to meet the required investment targets while reducing exposure to single large investments. The rationale behind public intervention in growth-stage is slightly different from the one in early-stage. Early-stage public investment is mostly driven by classic market failures in SME financing, such as the lack of hard collateral by innovative start-ups; the uncertainty of the business innovation process making banks reluctant to lend to start-ups; and the presence of fixed costs in the investment process, making small equity investments less profitable for large VC funds. On the other hand, growth-stage investments are mostly driven by the objective of promoting business scale-ups and the number of large mid-sized firms in Europe. Indeed, there is a widespread belief among policy makers that “Europe is weak, compared to the United States, in growing world-class companies from world-class innovations” (Kimmo, 2023[34]). The number of tech unicorns is also much lower in Europe than in the United States. Lack of growth finance has been singled out as one of the reasons behind the relative weakness of the European entrepreneurial ecosystem, with many national governments that have sought to step in to fill this gap, as shown by the Patient Capital Review (PCR) of the UK government. In the United Kingdom, British Patient Capital (BPC), a subsidiary of BBB, invests two-thirds of its funding commitments in growth-oriented VC funds and one-third in early-stage VC funds. Twenty-six out of 51 BPC-backed VC funds currently address venture growth. Similarly, the Future Fund: Breakthrough (FFB) programme supports growth-stage R&D-intensive companies through co-investments in sectors where companies need more time to reach commercialisation (e.g., quantum, clean tech, and life sciences). Government-backed investment rounds can go up to GBP 30 million, with up to 30% of government participation. According to the BBB, the trend towards growth-stage investment is also supported by EU commitments through the European Investment Fund (EIF) and, therefore, likely to be mirrored in other European countries (Kimmo, 2023[34]). In Germany, new VC programmes have also increasingly focused on the growth stage. For example, the GFF-EIF Growth Facility forms part of the EUR 10 billion German Future Fund, with the objective of supporting companies in the growth and late stages of development. It started with a volume of EUR 3.5 billion in 2021. In addition, the ERP/Future Fund Growth Facility established by KfW contributes to facilitate more frequent and larger financing rounds for start-ups. KfW invests up to EUR 50 million per fund. Finally, the Deep-Tech & Climate Fund, finances deep-tech companies, including in clean-tech, with validated business models. Similarly, the Venture Tech Growth Financing Programme, which is also funded by the umbrella Future Fund, fosters the growth phase of innovative companies through bridge loans and post-IPO debt loans, i.e., debt instruments which support the transition from one equity funding round to the next. Bpifrance has also supported the expansion of the growth capital segment (Capital Croissance) (Figure 10), in order to provide start-ups with the opportunity of growing quickly and ensuring their independence both through direct funds (“Large Venture” funds in 2013 and “Industrial Project Companies” in 2015) and indirect investment programmes (Multicap Croissance). Overall, Bpifrance subscribed to 33 capital growth funds between 2013 and 2022, with an average size significantly higher than other VC funds subscribed by Bpifrance (EUR 375 million compared to EUR 157 million). As a result, fundraising campaigns that exceeded EUR 20 million increased from 3 in 2013 to more than 100 in 2022.  29 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Figure 10. Growth capital investments and seed capital investments at Bpifrance, 2008-2021 EUR million Source: (Bpifrance, 2023[45]) In Denmark, the Danish Growth Capital Fund invested 20% of its capital in the early stages of business development in its first cycle (2011) and 33% in the second cycle (2015), i.e., a growing but still minority share compared to late-stage investments in established SMEs (i.e., up to 1 000 workers and turnover up to DKK 1.25 million). In 2021, the government, under the reform package of the Danish economy, invested DKK 4 billion to be used by the Fund on investments in growth capital. In the United States, the Small Business Investment Companies mostly invest in existing small businesses, although only 40% of their funding involves equity finance. On the other hand, the Venture Capital section of the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) has rather a focus on early-stage (45% of the total) and seed stage (27% of the total), which is the consequence of the strong local and social dimension of this programme. For example, supported state-level funds must show that a given share of total funding targets minority-owned businesses. Finally, Sweden represents a partial exception to the growth-stage trend, as most funding from both Almi Invest (direct investments) and Saminvest (indirect investments) targets early-stage start-ups. Sweden’s Regional Co-investment Fund also mostly supports early-stage business development. Government policies aim to attract institutional investors to the VC market As noted in the first section of this paper, institutional investors (e.g. pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign funds, etc.) have contributed to growing volumes of VC investments over the last decade. Especially in the case of pension funds, participation in VC markets has also occurred via government VC policies. In particular, governments have played an important signalling function by flagging private VC funds worth being invested to pension funds and other institutional investors. For example, in the case of the Danish Growth Fund, it has been reported that without government backing, it would have been unlikely for pension funds to go into early-stage VC investments (Kimmo, 2023[34]). It has also been noted that institutional investors play an important stabilising role in VC markets, since their long-term investment strategies allow them to maintain their investments, including during downturns (Krišto and Stojanovic, 2014[47]). 30  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Pension funds have been particularly active investors in Nordic countries, but Canada, Germany and the United Kingdom also offer examples of government programmes that have sought to ease the participation of pension funds in VC markets. Denmark is where the participation of pension funds in government VC policies has been the strongest, notably through the Danish Growth Capital Fund. As of 2023, the size of this Fund was DKK 3 billion, which had been invested in 12 VC funds. Pension funds contributed 33% of the investment commitment in the second cycle of the programme, up from 25% in the first cycle22. In Finland, public investment company TESI launched the KRR funds-of-funds programme with the specific intention of enabling pension funds to support business growth within a controlled-risk investment environment. Between 2008 and 2023, TESI’s KRR funds-of-funds invested almost EUR 600 million in Finnish scale-ups (Niemi, 2023[42]). Finally, in Sweden, Almi Invest partners with institutional investors in its investment activity (about 200 new and follow-on investments annually). Beyond the Nordic countries, the Managed Funds Programme of the British Business Bank was designed to attract institutional investors in the UK VC market. As of 2023, most of the GBP 500 million of the programme had already been invested in different VC funds, with the average investment expected to last 3-5 years and the overall duration of each supported fund to last between 10-12 years. More recently, in November 2023, the BBB announced that it would establish a new investment vehicle (i.e., a Growth Fund), opening its commercial capability and investment pipeline to pension fund investment. In Germany, the Wachstumsfonds Deutschland (WFD) was established by KfW Capital in 2022 to attract private institutional investors (e.g. pension funds, insurance companies) that have been underrepresented in the German VC market through a fund-of-funds investment model. Besides the Federal Government and KfW Capital as anchor investors, the WFD has more than 20 major institutional investors. The Fund has so far invested EUR 485 million in 26 German and European VC funds and has an investment target of EUR 1 billion. In February 2024, the German government announced the second vintage of the WFD, with the same the same investment rationale and objectives (KfW, 2024[48]). In Canada, government-mandated VC programmes have sought to incentivise VC investments by institutional investors, including pension funds. For example, pension funds contributed 14% of overall investment in funds-of-funds under the Venture Capital Action Plan (VCAP) and 20% in the 2017 vintage of the VCCI (Government du Canada, 2024[49]). In Europe, the EIF has established Asset Management Umbrella structures to enable institutional investors, including pension funds, to invest via EIF in the European VC market. These structures aim to address knowledge gaps in VC investments, as institutional investors do not necessarily have internal expertise about venture capital (EIF, 2023[50]). EU institutions support the development of an integrated European VC market In Europe EU institutions such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Investment Fund (EIF), which is part of the EIB Group but acts as an independent legal entity, are actively involved in government VC policies and typically match EU resources with national resources, with a view to creating an integrated European VC market. From a national perspective, one of the main benefits of EU-backed VC funding is de-risking and diversification of investments. In this respect, more recently, the investment activity of both EIB and EIF has been increasingly geared towards climate finance. In 2023, EIB’s total financing aimed at climate action and environmental sustainability was EUR 44.3 billion, i.e. 60% of the total, including all types of financing instruments. In 2023, the EIB committed EUR 2.8 billion into 78 VC funds. EIB’s investments typically represented 10-20% of the overall fund size (maximum, 25%), with investment tenors reflecting the life of the fund, i.e., normally 10-12 years with tenors up to 25 years. EIF has also increased its investment activity in climate and environmental impact funds and has committed close to EUR 1 billion in more than 25 VC, PE and PC (Private Credit) funds, effectively doubling the 2022 investment volumes, as well as a further EUR 1 billion in climate and infrastructure funds.  31 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 While EIB’s activity mainly involves investments in selected private VC funds, EIF operates specific VC facilities through funding commitments coming from the EIB, the European Commission, and EU member states or regions. In this respect, the EIF rolls out different types of financing instruments and has provided an average of 10-15% of overall VC fundraising in the EU in the past 10 years, as well as about half of overall VC public funding in the region. Through its funding, EIF supports indirectly 40-50% of VC-backed companies in Europe in a typical year. Major current programmes include Venture-EU, which is an EU-wide VC funds-of-funds programme aiming to address the fragmentation of the European VC market; the Cleantech Co-Investment Facility (EUR 200 million), which was launched in January 2024 and will be deployed over a four-year period; and the Mezzanine Facility for Growth, which is a EUR 1 billion fund-of funds with the mandate to invest in hybrid debt-equity funds throughout Europe. An example of the EIF’s pan-European approach comes from the European Tech Champions Initiative (ETCI), which targets the growth stage of VC investment across six European countries (Box 3). The European Angels Fund is also a case in point. Although this initiative is now closed, it was rolled out in seven EU countries (Austria, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Spain), with the aim of supporting cross-border collaboration between business angels (Box 4). Box 3. European Tech Champions Initiative (ETCI) Launched in 2023 by the EIB Group, the European Tech Champion’s Initiative (ETCI) aims to channel late-stage growth capital to European innovative companies. The main rationale is that only a few large VC funds in Europe have the capacity of providing large amounts of funding, leading to a situation where growth-stage financing rounds are often dominated by non-European investors, which may eventually carry the risk of companies relocating outside the EU. As a result, ETCI was created to tackle the shortage of scale-up capital in Europe. ETCI is managed by the EIF and was launched with EUR 500 million worth of EIB Group resources alongside contributions from Germany (EUR 1 billion), France (EUR 1 billion), Spain, Italy, and Belgium. In late 2023 the Netherlands also committed EUR 100 million to the programme, bringing the total size of the initiative up to EUR 3.85 billion. The ETCI will adopt a growth-focused funds-of-funds approach, whereby it will make 10-15 investments of maximum EUR 350 million. The invested funds are expected to mobilise more than EUR 10 billion of growth-stage investments in innovative companies. Alongside indirectly supporting scale-up companies, ETCI helps develop an asset class that is attractive to institutional investors, helping to maintain a continuous flow of funding to European scale-ups and the dynamism of the VC ecosystem in late stages. Source: (EIF, 2023[51]). Box 4. The European Angels Fund (EAF) of the European Investment Fund (EIF) Launched in 2012, the European Angels Fund (EAF) was a programme of the EIF which provided equity finance to business angels and other non-institutional investors in the form of co-investments, regardless of sector and investment stage. As of early 2024, EAF had an investment volume exceeding EUR 800 million, with more than EUR 330 million already committed to more than 120 selected business angels who had already invested in about 800 SMEs. Instead of granting co-investments on a deal-by-deal basis, the EAF enters into long-term contractual relationships with business angels, which take the name of Co-investment Framework Agreements 32  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 (CFA). Through the CFA, the EAF commits a predefined amount of equity finance for co-investments upfront to each business angel. The CFA are standardised contracts, although they can be tailored to some specific needs of the business angels, such as sector focus or number of investments. In the context of a CFA, the final investment decision fully lies with business angels, although they need to ensure appropriate background checks on investment targets and produce an investment report every six months. The total investment volumes available under an individual CFA range between EUR 250 000 and EUR 5 million, with the EAF matching the investment committed by business angels by the same amount. The EAF does not pay a management fee to business angels but shares investment-related costs on a pro-rata basis. Carried interest payments from EAF increase the advantages of the programme for business angels. Source: https://www.eif.org/what_we_do/equity/eaf/index.htm Among the countries covered in the analysis, there are many examples of cooperation with the EIF/EIB. For example, the EIF and Germany’s Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action developed the ERP-EIF Facility together to respond to the decline in equity finance after the dotcom crisis in 2004 (e.g. the EAF programme was part of this facility). As of 2023, the ERP-EIF Facility had reached total investment volumes of EUR 4.6 billion23. The German ERP-Special Fund has co-funded many government VC initiatives in Germany, from funds-of-funds programmes (i.e. Dachfonds) in the 2000s, to growth-dedicated co-investment facilities and VC funds (e.g. Coparion) in the 2010s, and the European Tech Champions Initiative in the 2020s. Denmark offers another example. It has been one of the recipients of the EIF-backed EAF programme24, but it has also partnered with the EIB through the Danish Growth Fund to launch an equity co-investment platform, one of the main objectives of which has been to prevent Danish scale-ups from looking for growth capital abroad (EIB, 2018[52]). In Sweden, the EIF has supported the Swedish Venture Initiative together with the national Agency for Economic and Regional Growth, while the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) has funded the Almi Invest Green Tech Fund and the Regional Co-Investment Fund in the past. Finally, the United Kingdom has also been a main recipient of EU VC funding until the 2020 Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Between 2011 and 2015, the EIF had invested EUR 2.3 billion into UK VC growth and mid-market funds that had invested EUR 13.8 billion in SMEs (UK Parliament, 2018[53]). Other examples include the Northern Powerhouse Investment Fund, receiving financial support from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), and the EIF-backed Future Technology Fund. Government VC policies are often sector-neutral but some strategic sectors are also specifically being targeted Because government VC investments must generate returns, they are often sector-neutral and tend to reflect broader VC market trends, which is also the consequence of government VC investments always matching private investments. As a consequence, government investments are mostly found in those sectors that have traditionally been preferred by private VC investors, such as information technology and life sciences. Nonetheless, there are also exceptions to this rule when the government seeks to promote secondary goals through its VC policies, such as environmental sustainability or disruptive innovation. There are many examples of sector-blind government VC policies. In the United Kingdom, the main sector recipients of British Patient Capital (BPC), the subsidiary of BBB, include the future of work, healthcare,  33 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 life science and consumer goods, suggesting that BPC follows investment opportunities where they arise. The Danish Growth Fund, which was behind VC policies in Denmark before the recent establishment of the Export and Investment Fund (EIFO), has also been sector-blind, supporting IT, health tech, and industrial technologies. BDC’s VC investment strategy aims to support undercapitalised innovative industries in Canada, helping Canadian technology innovators build world-class companies. Similarly, the government programme VCAP invested almost three-quarters of its funding in information technology, clearly reflecting broader VC investment trends. In Germany, the top recipient sectors of the HTGFs have been healthcare, information technology, fintech, energy and marketing. In parallel, national governments are also using some VC programmes to steer investments towards strategic sectors that are not receiving enough risk capital from private VC funds, either because of higher-than-average technology uncertainty or longer-than-average time to generate returns. Two notable examples are energy and environmental sustainability, which are key to meeting the Paris climate targets, and deep-tech, where the radical innovations being financed require a longer period to generate returns. There are different examples of deep-tech VC funds across the countries covered in our analysis and beyond. Spain’s Next-Tech Fund is a joint initiative of the national public development bank and the Secretary of State for Digitisation and Artificial Intelligence which works according to a fund-of-funds model and aims to mobilise EUR 4 billion of investments in deep-tech start-ups and scale-ups (Ministerio de Economia, Comercio y Empresa, 2021[54]). In Canada, the Deep-Tech Venture Fund of BDC Capital, launched in 2021, is investing CAD 200 million directly in early-stage (from seed to series A) deep-tech start-ups (BDC, 2021[55]). In Denmark, the government Quantum Technology Strategy, presented in 2023, aims to launch a dedicated fund which will be managed by EIFO and seek the participation of institutional investors (EIFO, 2023[56]). As mentioned above, the EIB group, including the EIF, has become increasingly focused on climate finance. At national level, Germany launched the “Deep Tech & Climate Fund” (DTCF) in 2022, which has a funding commitment of EUR 1 billion over 10 years. In Sweden, Almi Invest's “Green Tech Fund”, launched in 2018, is open to investments in renewable energies, smart grids, biogas, and agri-tech, among others. In Canada, BDC manages a Sustainability Venture Fund (CAD 150 million), a Cleantech Practice (CAD 600 million) and a Climate-tech Fund (CAD 400 million). In Estonia, the Smartcap Green Fund Direct Investment Programme, launched in 2022, has committed EUR 20 million for green-tech companies, from seed stage up to “Series B” investments (SmartCap, 2022[57]). In Australia, the Clean Energy Innovation Fund, managed by the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, provides early-stage capital in emerging clean energy technologies. It is an evergreen fund and, as of 2023, had a total of AUS 200million of AUM (Clean Energy Finance Corporation, 2023[58]) . In Denmark, the Danish Green Future Fund offers quasi-equity finance through convertible loans, as well as venture capital to promote the green transition in companies. In 2022, the Fund had DKK 4.79 billion of AUM25 (Danmarks Grønne Investeringsfond, 2023[59]). In France, Bpifrance’s Green Venture consists of three funds (Ecotechnologies I and II and Ville de Demain) that target start-ups in the fields of intelligent mobility, renewable energies, the circular economy, green chemistry or sustainable agriculture and food (Bpifrance, n.d.[60]). Similarly, Bpifrance launched a EUR 2.5 billion Deep-tech plan to focus on highly innovative companies through the expansion of the National Seed Fund and the Ecotechnologies II Fund. In addition to operating dedicated clean-tech funds, public development banks are also mainstreaming ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) considerations across all their investment activities. Bpifrance, for example, has developed a sustainable investment chart and regularly monitors through surveys the environmental sustainability of its investments. Based on its 2021 Sustainability Report, Bpifrance had invested EUR 197 million in companies offering green products and services, while its “green-specialised” partner funds had raised EUR 750 million. Bpifrance has also recently developed a methodology to assess the financed emissions of its portfolio. Some of the Swedish VC funds are also mainstreaming ESG requirements into their investment activities. For example, Industrifonden’s investment process has a strong focus on sustainability, including the use of an ESG questionnaire to 34  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 assess the green credentials of future investments. Similarly, Saminvest has established climate targets, including for its business angel activity. In Germany, KfW Capital’s key performance indicators include ESG and DEI (diversity, equality and inclusion) indicators, which are both applied to their partner funds. In Denmark, the Green Investment Fund carries out an ESG assessment before its investments, including against the principles of the EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Activities. In particular, companies receiving public investments need to contribute to at least one of the six environmental goals defined in the EU Taxonomy in a meaningful manner (Danmarks Grønne Investeringsfond, 2023[59]).Similarly, through Denmark’s Green Future Fund, EIFO finances projects and companies with a green profile, where the assessment is also made against the EU Taxonomy (EIFO, 2023[61]). Government VC policies are also sometimes used to pursue regional and social development objectives In some countries, governments also use VC policies to promote regional and social development objectives, in which case expected returns are generally lower than for mainstream VC programmes. The rationale behind these programmes is that private VC investments are strongly concentrated in some regional hubs and that the VC industry is male-dominated, which may prevent companies with growth potential in peripheral regions and women- or other minority-owned companies from getting access to risk capital. By way of example, investors had their office within a one-hour travel distance from the invested company in 61% of UK-based equity deals, while the distance was two hours in an additional 21% of deals (British Business Bank, 2021[62]). Similarly, at the EU level, more than 80% of VC investments are concentrated in 20 cities (EIF, 2016[63]). Government VC policies have sometimes sought to address the concentration of VC activity by channelling risk capital to peripheral regions, as well as to women-owned businesses and women-led VC funds, with a view to diversifying the distribution of equity finance across the country and in the population. Sweden, the United Kingdom, and France are the countries, among those covered in this analysis, where VC policies have shown the strongest regional dimension. Sweden’s Regional Co-Investment Fund, which was active between 2009 and 2015, invested SEK 3.4 billion, 1.4 of which from the national government, in 320 firms through 11 regional funds (investment ticket between SEK 1-10 million). Half of the public investment came from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and half from Sweden’s regional development organisations. Similarly, the Almi Invest Fund invests directly in start-ups through eight regional VC companies. In the case of the United Kingdom, prior to the creation of the British Business Bank (BBB) in 2014, from a total of 70 funds worth GBP 1.6 billion, GBP 960 million (60% of the total) was committed to funds with a regionally constrained investment policy (Capital for Enterprise Limited, 2012[64]). More recently, BBB has set up special regional funds for the northern regions (2017) and the Midlands (2018), totalling altogether GBP 900 million, as well as a regional business angel programme. In the 2022 Spending Review, the UK government announced another GBP 1.6. billion to set up the next generation of UK regional funds in the North, Midlands, Southwest of England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland (British Business Bank, 2020[65]; British Business Bank, 2022[66]). In France, Bpifrance manages regional and interregional funds, trying to combine financial profitability with local economic development goals. These funds apply a generalist and, often, interregional approach in order to enlarge the market depth and quality of investment opportunities, which is inevitably restrained if a strict regional focus is used. More specifically, Bpifrance’s indirect investments are organised around three clusters: regional funds, innovation funds and capital development funds. Most of the recent growth in indirect investments (see above) has come from the innovation and regional funds, with regional funds showing a 50% increase between the period 2013-2017 and the period 2018-2022. In Germany, while federal institutions like KfW Capital and the HTGF do not apply a regional development lens in their VC policy, regional promotional banks, especially in the most developed lander, sometimes operate VC programmes with a closely defined regional mandate.  35 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 In the Netherlands, the regional development agencies (i.e., ROMs for Regionale Ontwikkelingsmaatschappijen) are active in nine provinces and, amongst other activities, also invest in local VC funds. It has been estimated that as many as 60% of VC-backed Dutch companies receive equity finance from a regional development agency (Netherlands Chamber of Commerce, 2024[67]) (Regionale Ontwikkelingsmaatschappijen, 2023[68]). Outside Europe, Canada follows a model similar to Germany’s (Figure 11). BDC Capital’s VC activities and the government mandate programmes that BDC delivers have a pan-Canadian approach with VC investments made across Canada. Some provinces, however, also have regional VC policies. For example, Ontario and Alberta have both regional funds (Venture Ontario and Alberta Enterprise Corporation) supporting VC investments in their respective jurisdictions. Finally, in the United States, within the umbrella of the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI), there are 70 state-level VC funds which raised USD 4.17 billion between 2011 and 2016, 1.5 billion of which had social inclusion objectives. Figure 11. Canada’s VCAP fund-of-funds investments by province and sector, 2023 Percentage values Note: Panel A on the left represents the distribution by province of the number of firms that have benefited from the VCAP fund-of-funds. Panel B on the right represents the distribution by sector of these same companies. The data is unaudited and reflective of voluntary reporting from underlying funds, it may therefore not be suitable for year-to-year comparison. Source: OECD based on Government of Canada (2023[69]). Governments have also used VC policies to promote DEI objectives. In Canada, BDC operates the Thrive Platform for Women, which has a budget of CAD 500 million to invest in women-led technology businesses and in women-led VC funds. In addition, the VCCI and Renewed-VCCI programmes have also strived to enhance diversity in Canada’s VC ecosystem. In Germany, KfW Capital also considers the female staffing of partner VC funds in its investment decisions. In addition, the Emerging Manager Facility (EMF) is a new KfW instrument conceived for new and young VC management teams with the aim of enhancing access to VC by underrepresented groups, especially women (KfW, 2023[70]). In Sweden, Saminvest requests that women’s representation in the investment team of partner VC funds is at least 40%, with funds asked to show regular progress on this metric. In Denmark, EIFO has signed a diversity commitment binding the Fund to measure, track and report progress in promoting gender equality through the Fund’s activities (EIFO, 2023[71]). 36  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 This section looks more specifically into some of the operational arrangements of government VC programmes, covering the governance of public development banks, how investment decisions are taken and main investment terms and conditions (e.g., pari-passu conditions vs. asymmetric returns). The governance of VC-dedicated government institutions varies across countries but tends to include both government and private-sector representatives Public development banks have different governance models. In particular, boards of directors include different shares of public and private-sector representatives, although most investment decisions are taken by technical-level investment committees on proposals submitted by VC fund managers. Only very large investments are typically submitted to the approval of boards of directors, whose main role is to provide guidance on overall VC investment strategies and to ensure the proper implementation of governance VC policy directives. In the United Kingdom, the board of directors of the British Business Bank (BBB) includes 11 members, most of whom, including the chairman, come from the private sector (i.e. VC industry, business advisory services, and successful entrepreneurs). However, the two executive directors are staff members, i.e. the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Bank. Most investment decisions at BBB are done by investment committees, whose executive members are senior staff of the BBB, notably the CEO, the CFO, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Commercial Officer and the General Counsel. The Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC) adopts a very similar governance model. Its board of directors includes 11 members, most of whom come from the private sector. However, most investment decisions are taken also in this case at the investment-committee level. In France, the Board of Directors of Bpifrance consists of the General Director of Bpifrance, nine directors representing the shareholders (including four representatives of the State and five designated by the general meeting of shareholders, including four on proposal of Caisse des Dépôts), two directors representing the regions, two administrators chosen based on their expertise, and two directors elected by the staff of the Bpifrance group. Bpifrance’s investment teams are typically either structured around specific investment themes (e.g., digital venture, life sciences, etc.) or around the stage of investment (e.g. large ventures, etc.). In Germany, KfW Capital has a supervisory board which consists of six members, two representatives from KfW, two from the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action and from the Federal 4 Recent trends in the management of government venture capital programmes  37 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Ministry of Education and Research, and two from the VC industry. In addition, KfW Capital is supported by an advisory board including a larger number of private-sector representatives with different expertise. In Sweden’s Saminvest, only one representative from the government (Ministry of Finance) is a board member. Nonetheless, the CEO of Saminvest, who is not a member of the Board, reports twice a year to the Ministry of Climate and Enterprise on the performance of the Fund. Government VC investment decisions broadly follow the private-sector model Public development banks and investment funds are always required to generate returns. As a consequence, investment decisions are often taken from a profit maximisation perspective, within the boundaries of public VC investment guidelines. The prevailing investment decision process is that government VC fund managers submit investment proposals to investment committees of the public development bank or investment fund, up to a certain investment threshold. For larger investments exceeding this threshold, a higher-level approval is typically needed from the Board of Directors or by other Minister-level government bodies. With almost no exception, governments are always minority investors, i.e., they do not contribute more than 50% of the investment round and/or of the capital of the participated company/fund. However, maximum investment shares are generally much lower than 50%, typically 15-20% in the case of private VC funds. Selection criteria are also quite standard. In the case of direct investments, government VC funds select companies based on their track record, continued growth prospects, business internationalisation potential, sector focus, and exit opportunities. Increasingly, ESG requirements are also taken into consideration. If the government VC fund has a special mission, such as the promotion of DEI objectives, these additional criteria are also considered in the investment decision. In the case of indirect investments, selected VC funds need to have adequate fund size and fund management experience, as well as to show an alignment with government VC policies and a convincing fundraising plan. In some cases, the objective of the government has also been to expand the domestic VC ecosystem, which means some programmes have specifically targeted new fund managers, women-led VC funds or still VC funds able to fundraise from institutional investors. Turning to the experience of different countries, in Germany, KfW Capital, which only invests in private VC funds, never participates above 20% of the funding round, with a maximum investment size of EUR 50 million in the case of the ERP Future Fund Growth Facility. In Germany, however, the Hight Tech Grunderfonds (HTGF), which undertakes direct investments, is one of the few programmes among those covered in our analysis which can participate up to 100% of the investment round, at least in the seed stage26. In this programme, start-ups can receive up to EUR 2 million in the seed phase, where the HTGF can be the leading investor, and EUR 8 million overall. Investment decisions in the HTGFs are taken by one of the three sector investment committees consisting of industry experts (i.e., industrial technologies, life sciences and chemistry, and digital technologies). The HTGF also has an advisory board, whose role is to supervise the work of the HTGF. The advisory board is chaired by a representative from the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action and includes representatives from KfW Capital and private fund investors. In the United Kingdom, British Business Investments (BBI), a subsidiary of the British Business Bank (BBB), invests between 15-40% in each private fund or fund-of-funds, with the balance coming from private investors. British Patient Capital (BPC) mostly invests through commitments in fixed-term VC funds, although it is also open to evergreen funds (i.e., funds which do not have a fixed-term ending) and undertakes a small number of direct co-investments27. The BBB also manages the Enterprise Capital Fund (ECF) programme, which predates its creation. ECFs are managed by private fund managers, who need to raise at least one-third of their investment capital from private investors. 38  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 BBB and each of its subsidiaries have an investment committee, which is responsible for most investment decisions. BBB investment committees approve investment proposals coming from fund managers up to the limit of GBP 50 million. Above this threshold, approval must be sought from the Industrial Development Act Board and the Secretary of State. For decisions on individual investments in excess of GBP 75 million, approval must also be sought from the Boards of the BBB and the British Business Financial Services (BBFS), with prior consent from the Secretary of State. A similar investment decision process is found in Bpifrance, where investments exceeding EUR 75 million need to be approved by the Board of the bank. Otherwise, smaller-size investment decisions are taken through monthly meetings between the National Committee and the Regional Steering Committees, which reflects the decentralised organisation of Bpifrance (Kimmo, 2023[34]). Bpifrance is the only public development bank among those covered in this report which, in some indirect investment programmes (i.e., the National Seed Fund/Fonds national d’amorçage), may invest above 50% of the overall size of the fund, although this rarely happened in practice. In the case of the Danish Growth Capital Fund (DGF), investment decisions are directly taken by the Board of Directors, based on recommendations from the DGF’s fund managers. Funds eligible for investments need to be unlisted, commercially viable, and experienced. They also need to have a minimum size of DKK 400-500 million and invest in companies with up to 1 000 workers. In Finland, Business Finland Venture Capital (BFVC), which is part of the national business and investment promotion agency (Business Finland), invests in early-stage venture capital funds (2-3 per year) that can raise funds from institutional investors and financial institutions and in which general partners are willing to invest their own resources. Finally, in the case of Canada, BDC’s fund managers propose investment opportunities to the BDC Investment Committee, which consists of four people with VC industry experience. The BDC Investment Committee approves all investment transactions that exceed managers’ delegation of authority and recommends to the Board of Directors those that exceed its own delegation of authority. For the “government mandates” programmes (VCAP, VCCI and Renewed-VCCI), a private-sector led selection committee supported by the VCCI Secretariat (a team of ISED and BDC employees) provides investment recommendations to the Deputy Minister of ISED, who provides advice to the Minister responsible for the BDC. Funds selected are at the discretion of the Minister, who in turn provides ministerial direction to BDC to invest in these funds. Subsequently, these investments also require the approval of BDC’s Board Investment Committee prior to the official legal closing. VC investment returns are often shared equally between government and private investors, although there are exceptions Investment terms in government VC programmes may change along different variables, notably whether investment returns are shared equally between the government and private investors (i.e., so-called pari-passu conditions) or whether private investors receive preferential treatment (i.e. asymmetric returns), such as a bigger share of returns, anticipated returns, or “capped returns” and “first losses” for the government. Asymmetric returns are generally used to attract private investors in sectors and technologies that governments want to prioritise and where returns are more uncertain (see Box 5 for an example). However, they may also create moral hazard, as private GPs, who are those making decisions when governments invest in VC funds, may privilege investments which have higher expected returns in the short term over those with bigger potential in the longer term.  39 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Box 5. Asymmetric returns in Canada’s BDC government-mandated programmes Each of the fund-of-funds streams of the BDC government-mandated programmes have always applied asymmetric returns to attract private investors in government-sponsored VC programmes. Details have slightly changed between VCAP and the two cycles of the VCCI programme, but “preferred returns” for private investors have been a constant in these programmes. Venture Capital Action Plan fund-of-funds (2013) VCAP followed a contribution schedule of 10%-90% between private investors and government, by which the government would place a bigger amount of capital investment first. Furthermore, VCAP applied a specific 7% preferred return rate distribution, by which the private sector received returns first until it reached an internal rate of returns (IRR) of 7%, after which it was the time for the government to receive returns until an IRR of 7%. After these two initial phases, both the government and private investors would receive returns in an equal manner. Venture Capital Catalyst Initiative (VCCI) fund-of-funds (2017) The contribution schedule and returns distribution in the case of VCCI were different from VCAP. In particular, the contribution schedule between the public and private sector was on an equal basis to address concerns of private capital investment being delayed for too long. As to investment returns, these were more preferential for private investors than in VCAP and were based on the following sequence: i) private sector capital is returned, plus a 7% preferred return; ii) public-sector capital is returned, plus a 3% preferred return; iii) GPs receive full catch-up of carried interests (5% for funds and 12% for direct investment); iv) pro-rata distribution based on committed capital (subject to GP carry) (Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada, 2017[]). Renewed-VCCI fund-of-funds (2021) The incentive infrastructure of the Renewed-VCCI is very similar to the first cycle of the programme, with capital contributions flowing on a pro-rata and pari passu basis, although the preferred returns for private investors were lowered to 5% from 7% in previous VCAP and VCCI 2017 programmes. As a result, in this case, investment returns follow this sequence: i) private sector capital is returned, plus a 5% preferred return; ii) public-sector capital is returned, plus a 3% preferred return; iii) GPs receive full catch-up of carried interests; iv) pro-rata distribution based on committed capital (subject to GP carry). Government VC funding seeks to support domestic companies In all covered countries, government VC funding is subject to geographical clauses to ensure that taxpayer’s money is funnelled to domestic companies. This is especially important for government indirect VC policies, since domestic private VC funds may also invest abroad and since governments may want to attract foreign VC funds to invest at home while ensuring national funding is not used to fund foreign-owned companies. Although geographical clauses in government VC policies are common, there are some differences across the countries covered in the analysis. In Germany, for example, KfW Capital does not limit itself to investing in German funds and may invest in other EU-based VC funds. However, KfW-backed VC funds, regardless of where they are legally based, need to invest at least as much capital as KfW’s funding commitments into Germany-based companies. The definition of Germany-based companies refers to companies which have operations in the country, even though they may be headquartered elsewhere. In the case of the High Tech Grunderfonds (HTGF), 87% of the portfolio companies have been start-ups with headquarters 40  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 in Germany, while the remaining 13% had operations in Germany but headquarters in other countries (e.g., notably Switzerland and the United States). In the United Kingdom, the British Business Bank (BBB) can support overseas funds, on condition that investments by these funds in the United Kingdom are at least twice as large as the BBB commitment (Kimmo, 2023[34]). As a result, BBB’s geographical clause in its VC investment policy is stricter than that of KfW Capital, where the domestic investment requirement ratio is one-to-one. Similarly, Bpifrance can invest in foreign funds and requires that backed VC funds invest at least twice the amount committed by Bpifrance into French-based companies. In Sweden, Saminvest requires partner VC funds to invest at least its same amount of funding in Swedish companies. In the case of the Swedish Venture Initiative (SVI), which invests Swedish and EIF resources in private VC funds, no more than 15% of the capital can be invested in companies which do not have either headquarters or branch offices in Sweden, with this buffer funding that still needs to be invested within the EU. Business Finland Venture Capital (BFVC) has stronger requirements when it comes to the registration of portfolio companies. BFVC invests in private VC funds which should invest at least 50% of the Fund’s initial investment in companies registered in Finland (BFVC, 2023[]). Finally, Canada’s BDC applies different investment location requirements at the same time. For example, recipient fund managers under the Renewed-VCCI’s fund-of-funds streams need to pledge to invest at least 70% of their investments into Canadian funds, of which at least 60% of their investment is to be in qualified Canadian VC funds and commit to making at least 90% of direct investments in Canadian companies. In addition, recipients must commit to making all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that at least 40% of the total invested capital in the proposed fund is invested in Canada-based companies.  41 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 As part of the CSMEE work on the diversification of SME financing instruments, this report has mapped and benchmarked VC policies across nine countries, building on dedicated country profiles, summary versions of which are available online. This report shows that governments in many high-income economies are active investors in VC markets, often channelling their support through public development banks or public investment agencies. Over the last decade, indirect investments, whereby governments invest in private VC funds, have taken an increasingly prominent role, although direct investments remain common in many countries. Governments often partner with institutional investors (e.g. pension funds and insurance companies), which have contributed to drive the broader growth of VC markets over the last 15 years. The participation of institutional investors in VC markets is particularly strong in the three Nordic countries covered in the analysis (Denmark, Finland, and Sweden). In Europe, EU institutions such as the EIB and the EIF are important players, as they match national resources in many government VC programmes, with a view to creating an integrated European VC market. Government VC policies are often sector-neutral, reflecting the need for government VC entities, be they public development banks or investment funds, to generate returns for the government, while complying with the government investment policy. Sector neutrality is also the result of governments always investing as minority investors with other private investors. Nonetheless, in recent years, some government VC programmes have also sought to funnel VC resources into strategic sectors and technologies, such as clean-tech and deep-tech. Government VC policies also sometimes pursue social objectives, such as regional development and social inclusion, as there is strong evidence that venture capital is highly concentrated in regional hubs and that the VC industry is male-dominated, which has negative consequences for the growth of companies in peripheral regions and for women-owned companies. At the operational level, investment decisions in government VC programmes follow the private sector model and are mostly taken by investment committees, based on investment proposals put forward by VC fund managers. Only large investment decisions are made at the higher level of Boards of Directors, which have otherwise mostly a supervisory role. When it comes to investment terms and conditions, pari-passu conditions between the government and private investors are the most common type of agreement, although asymmetric returns are sometimes used to attract investors in sectors, technologies and regions where private investors need stronger incentives to step in. Finally, geographical clauses are also common when governments invest alongside private investors, to ensure that domestic funds are not used to support foreign-owned companies. Nonetheless, also in this case, there is some heterogeneity in the nature and strictness of these clauses. 5 Conclusions 42  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 References BDC (2023), The future of Canada’s VC industry includes ESG, https://www.bdc.ca/en/articles-tools/blog/future-canada-vc-industry-includes-esg. [39] BDC (2021), BDC Capital launches $200 million Deep Tech Venture Fund, https://www.bdc.ca/en/about/mediaroom/news-releases/bdc-capital-launches-million-deep-tech-venture-fund. [55] Bellavitis, C. and N. Matanova (2017), Do Interest Rates Affect VC Fundraising and Investments?, https://www.efmaefm.org/0EFMAMEETINGS/EFMA%20ANNUAL%20MEETINGS/2017-Athens/papers/EFMA2017_0125_fullpaper.pdf. [4] BFVC (2023), Investment principles, https://www.businessfinland.vc/en/investment-principles. [73] Bpifrance (2023), 10 ans d’impact: 2013-2023, Bpifrance , Paris. [41] Bpifrance (2023), 10 years of impact 2013-2023, https://www.bpifrance.fr/sites/default/files/2023-06/Livre_Bpifrance_10_ans_EN_vdef.pdf. [45] Bpifrance (n.d.), Green Venture, https://www.bpifrance.fr/nos-solutions/investissement/investissement-expertise/green-venture. [60] bpifrance (2023), A l’occasion de l’édition 2023 de Capital Invest, Bpifrance dresse le bilan de 10 années de soutien à l’écosystème français du capital investissement, https://presse.bpifrance.fr/a-loccasion-de-ledition-2023-de-capital-invest-bpifrance-dresse-le-bilan-de-10-annees-de-soutien-a-lecosysteme-francais-du-capital-investissement/#:~:text=Depuis%202012%2C%20les%20montants%20disponibles,de%2028 %20milliards%20d'. [74] British Business Bank (2023), UK Venture Capital Financial Returns. [19] British Business Bank (2022), “Small Business Equity Tracker 2022”. [37] British Business Bank (2022), Supporting sustainable recovery across the UK: Annual Report and Accounts 2022, British Business Bank, London. [36] British Business Bank (2022), Written evidence submitted by British Business Bank, https://committees.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/109252/pdf/. [66] British Business Bank (2021), Regions and Nations Tracker 2021. [62]  43 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 British Business Bank (2020), Written evidence submitted by British Business Bank (LRS0064), https://committees.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/11275/pdf/. [65] Business Development Bank of Canada (2023), “Equity for SMEs in Canada and the role of BDC Capital”, OECD Informal Steering Group on SME and Entrepreneurship Financing - September 2023. [40] Canadian Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (2023), Canadian Venture Capital Market Overview, https://reports.cvca.ca/books/ugbs/#p=1. [24] Capital for Enterprise Limited (2012), Capital for Enterprise Ltd: Overview of publicly-backed venture capital and loan funds in the UK, https://www.british-business-bank.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Overview-of-publicly-backed-venture-capital-and-loan-funds-in-the-UK-final.pdf. [64] Casson, M. et al. (2009), The Oxford Handbook of Entrepreneurship, Oxford University Press. [21] Clean Energy Finance Corporation (2023), Clean Energy Innovation Fund, https://www.cefc.com.au/annual-report-2021/performance/clean-energy-innovation-fund/. [58] Crunchbase (2024), North American Startup Funding Ended 2023 With A Q4 Dip, https://news.crunchbase.com/venture/north-american-startup-funding-eoy-2023/. [10] Crunchbase (2022), Global Venture Funding And Unicorn Creation In 2021 Shattered All Records. [11] Crunchbase (2022), What We Learned About Venture Funding During The 2008 Financial Crisis And The Pandemic As The Markets Face Fresh Turmoil, https://news.crunchbase.com/business/2022-vc-funding-outlook-compare-2008-financial-crisis-pandemic/. [3] Danmarks Grønne Investeringsfond (2023), Arsrapport 2022, https://eifo.dk/media/mlif02hi/dgif-aarsrapport-2022.pdf. [59] Dealroom (2024), “Israel”, https://dealroom.co/guides/israel. [25] Dealroom (2019), Quarterly European Venture Capital report 2019, https://dealroom.co/uploaded/2020/06/Dealroom-Q2-2019-Report-Final.pdf?x67760. [17] EIB (2018), VAEKSTFONDEN EQUITY CO-INVESTMENT PLATFORM, https://www.eib.org/en/projects/all/20160815. [52] EIF (2023), EIF Working Paper 2023/93, EIF Venture Capital Survey 2023 : Market sentiment, scale-up financing and human capital, https://www.eif.org/news_centre/publications/EIF_Working_Paper_2023_93.htm. [9] EIF (2023), “European Tech Champions Initiative”, https://www.eif.org/etci/about-etci/index.htm. [51] EIF (2023), Institutional Investors, https://www.eif.org/what_we_do/amuf-sduf/index.htm. [50] EIF (2023), The ERP-EIF Facility, https://www.eif.org/what_we_do/resources/erp/index.htm (accessed on 19 May 2023). [43] EIF (2023), The European Small Business Finance Outlook, https://www.eif.org/news_centre/publications/eif_working_paper_2023_96.pdf. [31] 44  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 EIF (2016), “The impact of EIF on the Venture Capital ecosystem”, The European venture capital landscape: an EIF perspective, No. 2016/34, European Investment Fund, Luxembourg. [63] EIF / Invest Europe (2023), The VC factor – Gender lens edition, https://www.eif.org/news_centre/publications/vc-factor-gender-lens-edition.pdf. [20] EIFO (2023), Corporate social responsability policies, buisness and climate, https://www.eifo.dk/media/g31f5qoy/eifo-annual-report-2023.pdf. [61] EIFO (2023), Diversity Commitment, https://diversity-commitment.com/. [71] EIFO (2023), Medarbejderliste, https://eifo.dk/kontakt/medarbejderliste/?department=Investment&employee=. [56] Finnish Venture Capital Association (2022), Venture Capital in Finland H1/2022, https://paaomasijoittajat.fi/app/uploads/2022/11/VC_in_Finland_H1-2022.pdf. [30] German Private Equity and Venture Capital Association (2022), A new VC Agenda for Germany and Europe, https://www.ie.foundation/content/4-publications/22_2146_cop_ief_bvk_2023_en_07_online_es.pdf. [16] Government du Canada (2024), Performance Metrics for VCCI 2017 – December 31, 2023, https://ised-isde.canada.ca/site/sme-research-statistics/en/venture-capital-catalyst-initiative/performance-metrics-vcci-2017-december-31-2023. [49] Government of Canada (2023), “Canadian Companies Supported by the Venture Capital Action Plan”, https://ised-isde.canada.ca/site/sme-research-statistics/en/venture-capital-action-plan/canadian-companies-supported-venture-capital-action-plan. [69] Haskel, J. and S. Westlake (2018), Capitalism without Capital: The Rise of the Intangible Economy, Princeton University Press, https://press.princeton.edu/books/hardcover/9780691175034/capitalism-without-capital. [7] Hellmann, T. and V. Thiele (2023), “Scaling versus selling startups: The role of foreign acquirers in entrepreneurial ecosystems”, Journal of Political Economy Microeconomics, https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/721807. [18] Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (2017), 2017 Venture Capital Catalyst Initiative: Call for Expressions of Interest, https://ised-isde.canada.ca/site/sme-research-statistics/sites/default/files/attachments/2022/VCCI_Call_Expressions_Interest-eng.pdf. [72] Invest-NL (2023), Background, https://www.invest-nl.nl/over-ons/achtergrond. [33] Ipsos Mori; George Barret (2021), “Enterprise Capital Funds Interim Evaluation”. [38] KfW (2024), Wachsturmsfonds Deutschland, https://www.kfw-capital.de/Newsroom/Growth-Fund-Germany/. [48] KfW (2023), Emerging Manager Facility, https://www.kfw-capital.de/Investment-focus/Investment-programmes/Emerging-Manager-Facility.html. [70] KfW (2020), KfW Venture Capital Study 2020 VC market Germany: Ready for the next development stage, https://www.kfw.de/PDF/Download-Center/Konzernthemen/Research/PDF-Dokumente-Studien-und-Materialien/PDF-Dateien-Paper-and-Proceedings-(EN)/KfW-Venture-Capital-Studie-2020_EN.pdf. [29]  45 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Kimmo, H. (2023), Evaluation of TESI - Appendix: International Benchmarking, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment of Finland, Helsinki. [34] Krišto, J. and A. Stojanovic (2014), “Impact of institutional investors on financial market stability: lessons from financial crisis”, International Journal of Diplomacy and Economy, pp. 102-117, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/264815558_Impact_of_institutional_investors_on_fi nancial_market_stability_lessons_from_financial_crisis. [47] Lerner, J. and R. Nanda (2020), Venture Capital’s Role in Financing Innovation: What We Know and How Much We Still Need to Learn. [5] Mckinsey (2021), Getting tangible about intangibles: The future of growth and productivity?, https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/growth-marketing-and-sales/our-insights/getting-tangible-about-intangibles-the-future-of-growth-and-productivity. [8] Ministerio de Economia, Comercio y Empresa (2021), Fondo Next Tech, https://portal.mineco.gob.es/es-es/comunicacion/Paginas/210719-fondo-next-tech.aspx. [54] Morgan Stanley (2020), Public to Private Equity in the United States: A long-term look, https://www.morganstanley.com/im/publication/insights/articles/articles_publictoprivateequityi ntheusalongtermlook_us.pdf. [6] Netherlands Chamber of Commerce (2024), Regional Development Agencies (ROMs), https://business.gov.nl/running-your-business/business-location/establishing-or-relocating-a-business/regional-development-agencies-roms/. [67] Niemi, M. (2023), Tesi Private equity and venture capital for startups and growth companies, https://www.eurahoitusneuvonta.fi/49aa33/globalassets/eu-rahoitusneuvonta/materiaalit/20230510_tesi_bioenergy_otaniemi_final.pdf. [42] Nordsip (2023), Swedish AP Funds Under Scrutiny, Again, https://nordsip.com/2023/10/24/swedish-ap-funds-under-scrutiny-again/. [15] NVCA (2024), SSBCI Resources, https://nvca.org/ssbci-resources/. [76] OECD (2024), Financing SMEs and Entrepreneurs 2024: An OECD Scoreboard, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/fa521246-en. [1] OECD (2024), OECD Data Explorer, https://data-explorer.oecd.org/vis?fs[0]=Topic%2C1%7CEconomy%23ECO%23%7CEconomic%20outloo k%23ECO_OUT%23&pg=0&fc=Topic&bp=true&snb=2&vw=tb&df[ds]=dsDisseminateFinalD MZ&df[id]=DSD_EO%40DF_EO&df[ag]=OECD.ECO.MAD&df[vs]=1.1&dq=ISR%2BUSA%2B GBR%2BSWE%2BDEU%2BFR. [2] OECD (2023), Venture Capital Investments, OECD Enterprise Statistics database. [13] OECD (2016), SME and Entrepreneurship Policy in Israel 2016, OECD Studies on SMEs and Entrepreneurship, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264262324-en. [28] OECD (2015), New Approaches to SME and Entrepreneurship Financing: Broadening the range of instruments. [22] OECD (forthcoming), Financing SMEs and Entrepreneurs 2025 Highlights. [27] 46  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Pitchbook (2024), Funding for European VC mega-rounds makes a comeback, https://pitchbook.com/news/articles/europe-vc-mega-rounds-q1. [75] Pitchbook and NVCA (2023), Pitchbook NVCA Venture Monitor, https://files.pitchbook.com/website/files/pdf/Q4_2022_PitchBook-NVCA_Venture_Monitor.pdf. [12] Pitchbook and NVCA (2023), Venture Monitor, https://files.pitchbook.com/website/files/pdf/Q4_2022_PitchBook-NVCA_Venture_Monitor.pdf. [23] Regionale Ontwikkelingsmaatschappijen (2023), RDAs are regional drivers of the economy, https://www.rom-nederland.nl/en/. [68] Ritter, J. (2023), Initial Public Offerings: Updated Statistics, https://site.warrington.ufl.edu/ritter/files/IPO-Statistics.pdf. [14] SBA (2014), “SBIC Program Annual Report - FY 2014”, https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2022-09/SBICAnnualReport_FY2014_Final_508_1.pdf. [26] SBIA (n.d.), “Small Business Investor Alliance - Small Business Investment Companies”, https://sbia.org/sbic-council/. [46] SmartCap (2022), SmartCap Green Fund Direct Investment Programme, https://smartcap.ee/gtip-202210/. [57] Technopolis (2016), Evaluation of the High-Tech Gründerfonds (short version), https://www.technopolis-group.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/Evaluation-of-Hightech-Gru%CC%88nderfonds.pdf. [35] Tillvaxtanalys (2013), Firms´responses to private and government sponsored Venture Capital, https://www.tillvaxtanalys.se/download/18.62dd45451715a00666f1c822/1586366168820/pm_ 2017_02_Firms%C2%B4responses%20to%20private-%20and%20government-sponsored%20Venture%20Capital.pdf. [44] U.S. Department of Treasury (2017), Small Business Programme Reports, https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/small-business-programs/state-small-business-credit-initiative-ssbci/ssbci-program-reports. [77] UK Department of Business and Trade (2017), Patient Capital Review: Industry Panel Response, UK Department of Business and Trade, London. [32] UK Parliament (2018), British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association (BVCA) – Written evidence (EIB0009), https://committees.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/94876/pdf/#:~:text=The%20EIF%20has%20 funded%20a,market%20funds%20in%20the%20UK. [53]  47 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Notes 1 The ten European countries are Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom. 2 In Israel, the low share of VC investments in the seed stage is also explained by the fact that pre-seed investments are excluded from the statistics collected by the OECD. 3 The average age of a newly public company has gone from 4.5 years in 1999 to 12 in 2020 and 15 in 2022. 4 In 2023, for example, VC investments reached 0.21% of GDP in the United States and 0.22% in Canada, compared to 0.14% in Denmark, 0.07% in Sweden, 0.06% in Finland and Germany and 0.05% in France. Data for Israel is only available up to 2020. 5 This is the case of Sequoia Capital, one of the US largest VC funds 6 Mega-rounds are defined as funding events where start-ups raise EUR 100 million or more in a single financing round (Pitchbook, 2024[75]). 7 TVPI (Total Value to Paid-In) is a key performance metric in venture capital that measures the total value (both realised and unrealised) of the assets of a VC fund relative to the total capital invested. Comparing this metric across a pool of VC funds in a selected group of countries can provide an indication of differences in VC fund performance. 8 More recently, in Europe, VC commitments from government agencies declined by 16% in 2021, when the VC industry experienced record high activities, and increased by 50% in 2023, as the VC industry experienced a marked decline (Figure 5) (OECD, forthcoming[27]). 9 Source: History of the Business Development Bank of Canada | BDC.ca 10 Source: eifo-annual-report-2023.pdf 11 Source: https://www.sba.gov/document/support--sbic-program-overview 12 The ERP-EIF Facility is a partnership between the German Federal Government and the EIF, managed by the EIF, providing venture and growth capital financing with a focus on high-tech early and later stage companies in Germany. 13 Source : https://www.kfw-capital.de/Newsroom/Jahresr%C3%BCckblick-2023/index-2.html 14 Source: https://sifted.eu/articles/kfw-capital-vc-investing and https://www.kfw.de/About-KfW/Reporting-Portal/Reporting-2022/KfW-Capital/ 15 Source : https://www.htgf.de/en/about-us/. 16 Regio Inno Growth Programme: https://www.kfw.de/inlandsfoerderung/Unternehmen/Innovation-und-Digitalisierung/F%C3%B6rderprodukte/RegioInnoGrowth-(265)/ 48  BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 17 Source : https://tesi.fi/en/about-tesi/. 18 Another fund in Sweden, Industrifonden, rather targets industrial companies with investment tickets in the range of SEK 10-50 million. 19 In the period 2017-21, Saminvest invested SEK 2.9 billion in 14 VC funds and 6 business angel schemes, which in turn had invested in 292 companies. 20 Co-investments are usually meant to fill a gap in a funding round which cannot be filled by private VC funds, for example because doing so would increase the exposure of VC funds to one single company beyond what is permitted by internal investment rules. 21 The MFP typically commits between 15% and 40% in each fund of funds, with the balance coming from private investors. 22 Some of the most active pension fund investors are ATP, Danica Pension and Pension Denmark. 23 For more information of the EIF in Germany see: https://engage.eif.org/eif-in-my-country/eif-in-germany. 24 For more information of the EIF in Denmark see: https://engage.eif.org/eif-in-my-country/eif-in-denmark. 25 The total value of the loan portfolio as of December 2022 was DKK 4245.9 million and unused commitments were DKK 548.8 million (Danmarks Grønne Investeringsfond, 2023[59]). 26 It is worth noting that Sweden’s Saminvest Fund can participate up to 70% in the partner VC funds, although it generally stays within 50% (Kimmo, 2023[34]). 27 As noted earlier, co-investments are direct investments in companies in which BBB-backed VC funds have already invested.  49 BENCHMARKING GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR VENTURE CAPITAL © OECD 2025 Annex A. Exchange rates Financial information in the report is presented in national currencies. The table below provides information on the exchange rates of the national currencies against the US dollar for the nine countries covered in the analysis between 2021 and 2025. To obtain the value of VC investments and assets under management in US dollars, values in national currencies need to be divided by the ratios presented in the table. Table A A.1. Exchange rate, national currency per USD Country Unit of measure 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Canada National currency per US dollar, Canadian dollar 1.25 1.30 1.35 1.36 1.36 Denmark National currency per US dollar, Danish krone 6.29 7.08 6.89 6.88 6.88 Finland National currency per US dollar, Euro 0.85 0.95 0.92 0.92 0.92 France National currency per US dollar, Euro 0.85 0.95 0.92 0.92 0.92 Germany National currency per US dollar, Euro 0.85 0.95 0.92 0.92 0.92 Israel National currency per US dollar, New Israeli shekel 3.23 3.36 3.69 3.73 3.75 Sweden National currency per US dollar, Swedish krona 8.58 10.11 10.60 10.58 10.64 United Kingdom National currency per US dollar, Pound sterling 0.73 0.81 0.80 0.79 0.79 United States National currency per US dollar 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 Source: OECD Data Explorer, Economic Outlook 115, (OECD, 2024[2])
