---
{
  "source_id": 442,
  "url": "https://rfairlie.sites.luskin.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/32/2025/06/entrepreneurship-indicators-2023_v5.pdf",
  "source_domain": "rfairlie.sites.luskin.ucla.edu",
  "source_type": "university",
  "reliability_label": "high",
  "title": "Indicators of Entrepreneurial Activity: 2023 Robert Fairlie - UCLA rfairlie@ucla.edu January 2024 Abstract: Up-to-date information on trends in entrepeneurship are not readily available. This paper creates and reports trends for two important indicators of entrepreneurial activity through the end of",
  "fetched_at": "2026-05-20T22:10:56.436750+00:00",
  "extraction_method": "tavily_extract",
  "tavily_request_id": "0f337e59-92dd-4946-ab6a-89be40908f1f",
  "tavily_response_time": 6.41,
  "tavily_usage": {
    "credits": 2
  },
  "favicon": "http://rfairlie.sites.luskin.ucla.edu/favicon.ico",
  "images": []
}
---

# Indicators of Entrepreneurial Activity: 2023 Robert Fairlie - UCLA rfairlie@ucla.edu January 2024 Abstract: Up-to-date information on trends in entrepeneurship are not readily available. This paper creates and reports trends for two important indicators of entrepreneurial activity through the end of

Indicators of Entrepreneurial Activity: 2023 Robert Fairlie - UCLA rfairlie@ucla.edu January 2024 Abstract: Up-to-date information on trends in entrepeneurship are not readily available. This paper creates and reports trends for two important indicators of entrepreneurial activity through the end of 2023. Trends from 1996–2023 are examined for two measures: (i) the new entrepreneurship rate which captures the share of new entrepreneurs in a given month out of the population, and (ii) the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs which captures the percentage of new entrepreneurs who created their businesses out of opportunity instead of necessity. The measures were included in the discountinued series, the Kauffman Early-Stage Entrepreneurship (KESE) Index (reported in Early-Stage Entrepreneurship in the United States). The KESE series was previously known as the Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity and The Kauffman Index of Startup Activity. In 2023, the new entrepreneurship rate was 0.35 percent and the opportunity share was 85.2 percent. Both of these measures of entrepreneurship continued a return to pre-pandemic levels in 2023. The opportunity share dropped precipitously in the pandemic. In 2023, Entrepreneurship rates were the highest for men, Latinx Americans, and immigrants relative to their comparison groups, whereas opportunity shares were the highest for women, Asian Americans, and immigrants. Among states, Florida (0.60 percent), Texas (0.47 percent) and California (0.47 percent) had the highest new entrepreneurship rates in 2023 whereas Minnesota (0.17 percent), Kansas (0.18 percent), and Wisconsin (0.18 percent) had the lowest entrepreneurship rates. The opportunity share was the highest in Minnesota (97.2 percent), Iowa (95.5 percent), and Utah (94.6 percent), and the lowest in the District of Columbia (69.3 percent), Rhode Island (73.3 percent), Virginia (75.3 percent), and Indiana (75.3 percent). Thanks to Jim Prieger for comments and suggestions. 1. Introduction Measuring trends in entrepreneurship is important for taking the pulse of the U.S. economy but there is a lack of up-to-date information from high-quality nationally representative sources. This paper creates and reports trends for two important indicators of entrepreneurial activity using the most timely available data available. The indicators of entrepreneurial activity created here capture early-stage entrepreneurial activity through the end of 2023. They include two key measures of entrepreneurial activity: (i) the new entrepreneurship rate which captures the broadest measure possible for business creation by the population. (ii) the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs which captures the percentage of new entrepreneurs who created a business out of choice or opportunity instead of necessity. Each of these indicators is based on a nationally representative sample of more than a half-million observations each year from underlying microdata produced by the U.S. Census Bureau and U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The measures are not published by any government agency and are calculated from compiled and matched microdata. These two measures were included in the discountinued series, the Kauffman Early-Stage Entrepreneurship (KESE) Index reported in Early-Stage Entrepreneurship in the United States.1 Prior to the KESE reports, the two measures were included in the discountinued series, the Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity and The Kauffman Index of Startup Activity. This paper provides new estimates through 2023 from these olders series. National trends from 1996 to 2023 are reported for the two indicators as well as trends for major demographic groups (i.e. race, gender, and nativity). These data are the only available information on demographic characteristics of business owners that are released within one month of data collection. I also report state trends in both indicators. The New Entrepreneurship Rate The new entrepreneurship rate provides a broad measure of entrepreneurship, capturing all new business owners, regardless of business size or origin. As such, it includes businesses of all types, regardless of their growth potential or the intentions of their owners. It captures all new business owners, including those who own incorporated or unincorporated businesses, and those who are employers or non-employers.2 The new entrepreneurship rate captures the percentage of the adult, non-business owner population that starts a business each month. New business owners are defined here as those individuals who worked an average of 15 or more hours per week in their businesses in the preceding month. This measure is calculated from compiled microdata from the Current Population Survey (CPS), a monthly survey of the U.S. Bureau of the Census and Bureau of Labor Statistics. 1 See https://indicators.kauffman.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2022/03/2021-Early-State-Entrepreneurship-National-Report.pdf and https://indicators.kauffman.org/series/earlystage. 2 Business-level data from the Comprehensive Startup Panel (CSP) indicate that roughly 11 percent of all business entity startups in the U.S. economy each year are employer startups, 76 percent are sole proprietorships with no employees, and 13 percent are incorporated or partnerships with no employees (Fairle et al. 2023). The Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs provides broad insight into the influence of economic conditions on overall business creation among new entrepreneurs. It distinguishes between individuals who are “opportunity entrepreneurs”—including those coming out of work, school, or another labor market status—and individuals who are “necessity entrepreneurs” due to unemployment.3 The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs reflects the percent of the total number of new entrepreneurs who were not unemployed and not looking for a job as they started a new business. Although the motivations for starting businesses can differ (and can be seen in the context of weak economic conditions and high unemployment rates), necessity businesses could eventually become very successful. This measure is calculated from compiled microdata from the Current Population Survey (CPS), a monthly survey of the U.S. Bureau of the Census and Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2. National Trends in the New Entrepreneurship Rate The new entrepreneurship rate reflects how many adults start a business, on average each month, in a year. Figure 1.A and Appendix Table 1 presents the new entrepreneurship rate from 1996 to 2023.4 In 2023, an average of 0.35 percent of the adult population, or 350 out of 100,000 adults, created a new business each month.5 The new entrepreneurship rate remained higher than pre-pandemic levels after the sharp increase from 2019 to 2020 in the first year of the pandemic.6 During tumultuous times such as the COVID-19 pandemic, the new entrepreneurship rate can increase substantially as businesses close and restart, and workers are laid off and turn to part-time business activities. The measure is based on month-to-month movement into new business activity. The large-scale damage to the economy that began near the end of March 2020 showed up in more movement into and out of self-employment and new business activity during 2020 than in previous years. The Great Recession also witnessed an increase in the new entrepreneurship rate, but this increase was much smaller than the unprecedented pandemic-induced recession of 2020. The new entrepreneurship rate might be at a higher plateau after the pandemic with more of the population trying business ownership than before the pandemic. But, there does appear to be somewhat of a return to pre-pandemic levels over the past few years. 3 See Fairlie and Fossen (2019). 4 The entrepreneurship index is the percent of individuals (ages 20-64) who do not own a business in the first survey month that start a business in the following month with 15 or more hours worked. All observations with allocated labor force status, class of worker, and hours worked variables are excluded. 5 Estimates of annual new entrepreneurship rates would be approximately six to eight times higher. They are not twelve times higher than monthly rates because an individual could start and exit the business multiple times in the same year. See Fairlie and Desai (2022). 6 Monthly data indicate an extremely large drop in self-employed business activity in April 2020 and partial rebounds in May and June 2020 (Fairlie 2020). Demographic Trends in the New Entrepreneurship Rate The new entrepreneurship rate increased sharply in the first year of the pandemic and remained at a higher level through 2023 for both women and men. Figure 1.B shows these trends (also see Appendix Table 1). For women, the new entrepreneurship rate increased from 0.23 percent in 2019 to 0.30 percent in 2020, and remained at a higher level at 0.28 percent in 2021 and 2022 but dropped to 0.26 in 2023. For men, it increased from 0.38 percent in 2019 to 0.48 percent in 2020, and is returning to pre-pandemic levels (currently at 0.44 percent in 2023). Overall, men are substantially more likely to start businesses than women. In 2019, before the pandemic, 380 out of every 100,000 men became new entrepreneurs in a given month, compared to 230 out of 100,000 women. The large gender gap in new entrepreneurship rates has been persistent over the past 25 years and continued in 2023. 0.0% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 1.A New Entrepreneurship Rate (1996-2023) Source: Fairlie (UCLA) calculated from compiled CPS microdata Figure 2 and Appendix Table 2 provide estimates of the new entrepreneurship rate by race and ethnicity.The new entrepreneurship rate increased substantially for all race and ethnic groups in the first year of the pandemic. The rates for Black and Latinx Americans remain higher in 2023 than pre-pandmic levels. For white and Asian Americans, the new entrepreneurship rate has mostly returned to pre-pandemic levels. Over most of the time period covered, the rate of new entrepreneurship was highest among Latinx Americans and lowest among Black Americans. 0.0% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 1.B New Entrepreneurship Rate by Sex (1996-2023) Male Female Source: Fairlie (UCLA) calculated from compiled CPS microdata Figure 3 and Appendix Table 3 report estimates of the new entrepreneurship rate by nativity. The new entrepreneurship rate increased substantially in the first year of the pandemic but the patterns differed by nativity since 2020. For the immigrant population entrepreneurship rates increased in the pandemic and continued to increase in 2023. For the native-born population entrepreneurship rates increased in the first year of the pandemic but then decreased slightly in 2021 and continued to decrease through 2023. For immigrants, the new entrepreneurship rate was higher in 2023 than pre-pandemic levels. The new entrepreneurship rate, however, is the same for the native-born in 2023 as in 2019. Overall, the new entrepreneurship rate is higher for immigrants than the native-born population. The 2023 new entrepreneurship rate among immigrants was 0.67 percent, which is substantially higher than the 0.28 percent rate for the native born. 0.0% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% 0.6% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 2 New Entrepreneurship Rate by Race and Ethnicity (1996-2023) White Black Latinx Asian Source: Fairlie (UCLA) calcuated from compiled CPS microdata 3. National Trends in the Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs captures new business activity that is inspired by opportunity rather than necessity. Figure 4.A and Appendix Table 4 report annual estimates of the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs from 1996 to 2023. Nationally, the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs decreased slightly to 85.2 percent in 2023. It increased from 80.9 percent in 2020 to 88.3 percent in 2021 reflecting a continuation of improving economic conditions after the early-stage impacts of COVID-19. In 2022 and 2023, the opportunity share roughly returned to pre-pandemic levels. 0.0% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% 0.6% 0.7% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 3 New Entrepreneurship Rate by Nativity (1996-2023) Native-Born Immigrant Source:Fairlie (UCLA) calculated from compiled CPS microdata In the first year of the pandemic, the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs plummeted. It decreased from 86.9 percent in 2019 to 69.8 percent in 2020, representing the largest drop over the past 25 years (as tracked in this series) and perhaps much longer. The sharp decrease in the opportunity share in 2020 reflects the massive economic losses during the pandemic. As non-essential businesses closed to stop the rapid spread of COVID-19, consumers cut back on in-person consumption and owners and their employees scaled back work effort for health concerns, new business creation originating from opportunities instead of necessity fell precipitously. The decline in the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs from 2019 to 2020 was 17.1 percentage points. In comparison, the drop in the opportunity share from 2008 to 2009 during the Great Recession was 6.9 percentage points. Demographic Trends in the Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs Trends in the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs by demographic groups are also examined. Figure 4.B and Appendix Table 4 report three-year moving averages from 1998 to 2023. Three-year moving averages are reported to increase the precision of estimates and reduce the influence of year-to-year fluctuations from sampling variability. In 2023, the opportunity share of new entrepeneurs for men was 82.6 percent and the opportunity share for women was 88.1 percent. The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs returned to pre-pandemic levels for men in 2023, but remained lower than pre-pandemic levels for women. The opportunity share was 90.6 50.0% 55.0% 60.0% 65.0% 70.0% 75.0% 80.0% 85.0% 90.0% 95.0% 100.0% 1996.0 1998.0 2000.0 2002.0 2004.0 2006.0 2008.0 2010.0 2012.0 2014.0 2016.0 2018.0 2020.0 2022.0 2024.0 Figure 4.A Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (Annual) (1996-2023) Source: Fairlie (UCLA) calculated from compiled CPS microdata percent in 2019 for women. In the few years prior to the pandemic, there was a general upward trend in the opportunity share for both women and men as the economy continued to grow. The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs is lower for men than for women. Furthermore, the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs for women has generally been more stable than that for men. All race and ethnic groups experienced increases in opportunity shares roughly returning to pre-pandemic levels. Figure 5 and Appendix Table 5 report trends in three-year moving averages of opportunity shares from 1998 to 2023. For all groups the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs has risen since 2019, reversing upward trends over the few years prior to the pandemic. Over most of the time period this indicator is highest among Asian Americans and lowest among Black Americans. 50.0% 60.0% 70.0% 80.0% 90.0% 100.0% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 4.B Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (3-Year Moving Average) by Gender (1996-2023) Male Female Source: Fairlie (UCLA) calculated from compiled CPS microdata Figure 6 and Appendix Table 6 report estimates of the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs by nativity. The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs also continued the bounce back from pre-pandemic levels for both immigrants and the native-born. In most years, the opportunity share is higher for immigrant population than for the native-born population. 50.0% 60.0% 70.0% 80.0% 90.0% 100.0% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 5 Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (3-Year Moving Average) by Race (1996-2023) White Black Latino Asian Source: Fairlie (UCLA) Calculated from Compiled CPS Microdata 4. State Trends in New Entrepreneurship Rate and Opportunity Share Appendix Table 6 reports new entrepreneurship rates by state from 1998 to 2023. Estimates are reported as three-year moving averages to increase precision. The states with the higest new entrepreneurship rates in 2023 are Florida (0.60 percent), Texas (0.47 percent) and California (0.47 percent). The states with the lowest new entrepreneurship rates in 2023 are Minnesota (0.17 percent), Kansas (0.18 percent), and Wisconsin (0.18 percent). These estimates imply large differences between Florida where 600 out of 100,000 people start a business each month compared to only 170 out of 100,000 people starting a business each month in Minnesota. Appendix Table 7 reports opportunity shares of new entrepreneurs by state from 1998 to 2023. Estimates are reported as three-year moving averages to increase precision. The states with the higest opportunity shares in 2023 are Minnesota (97.2 percent), Iowa (95.5 percent), and Utah (94.6 percent). The states with the lowest opportunity shares in 2023 are District of Columbia (69.3 percent), Rhode Island (73.3 percent), Virginia (75.3 percent), and Indiana (75.3 percent). 50.0% 60.0% 70.0% 80.0% 90.0% 100.0% 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Figure 6 Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (3-Year Moving Average) by Nativity (1996-2023) Native-Born Immigrant Source: Fairlie (UCLA) calculated from compiled CPS microdata 5. Conclusion The new entrepreneurship rate was higher in 2023 than in pre-pandemic 2019, reflecting more transitions into entrepreneurial activity, broadly defined, among the population during pandemic and pandemic recovery conditions. At the same time, the opportunity share of this activity increased from 2020 when it was at the its lowest level in at least 25 years, indicating that many of these transitions were undertaken by people with few other options for economic engagement. In 2023, the rebound from the widespread economic damage of the COVID-19 pandemic showed up through a partial return to pre-pandemic levels in both new entrepreneurial activity and the opportunity share of new entrepreneurs. Demographic trends in new entrepreneurship rates and opportunity shares of new entrepreneurs indicate substantial differencess across groups which are not always in the same direction. For example, new entreprneurship rates are higher for men than women but women have higher opportunity shares than men. State variation in entrepreneurial indicators is also substantial. Florida, California and Texas are found to have high new entrepreneurship rates whereas Minnesota and Iowa had the highest opportunity shares. REFERENCES Fairlie, R. 2020. “The Impact of COVID-19 on Small Business Owners: The First Three Months after Social-Distancing Restrictions.” Journal of Economics and Management Strategy, 29(4): 727-740. Fairlie, Robert W., Zachary Kroff, Javier Miranda, and Nikolas Zolas. 2023. The Promise and Peril of Entrepreneurship: Job Creation and Survival among US Startups, Cambridge: MIT Press. Fairlie, R. and Desai, S. 2022. “Early-Stage Entrepreneurship: Indicators and a Summary Index.” Technical Report Number 1. Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation. Fairlie, R. and Fossen, F. 2019. "Defining Opportunity versus Necessity Entrepreneurship: Two Components of Business Creation," National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper No. 26377. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2022. Current Population Survey. (CPS). https://www.bls.gov/cps/ Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Year Index Size Index Size Index Size 1996 0.38% 242,558 0.26% 286,670 0.32% 529,228 1997 0.36% 244,856 0.21% 286,481 0.28% 531,337 1998 0.32% 245,941 0.25% 286,602 0.29% 532,543 1999 0.32% 245,815 0.22% 286,416 0.27% 532,231 2000 0.34% 247,027 0.21% 285,355 0.27% 532,382 2001 0.31% 260,936 0.23% 300,637 0.27% 561,573 2002 0.35% 289,130 0.22% 335,173 0.28% 624,303 2003 0.38% 284,487 0.23% 330,102 0.30% 614,589 2004 0.37% 279,600 0.24% 323,571 0.30% 603,171 2005 0.35% 277,131 0.23% 321,046 0.28% 598,177 2006 0.36% 275,538 0.24% 317,379 0.30% 592,917 2007 0.40% 271,413 0.21% 314,074 0.30% 585,487 2008 0.42% 272,789 0.23% 312,888 0.32% 585,677 2009 0.43% 276,445 0.25% 315,254 0.34% 591,699 2010 0.44% 277,387 0.24% 315,884 0.34% 593,271 2011 0.42% 273,887 0.23% 312,259 0.32% 586,146 2012 0.38% 272,246 0.23% 308,707 0.30% 580,953 2013 0.34% 268,540 0.22% 304,060 0.28% 572,600 2014 0.41% 266,891 0.22% 302,210 0.31% 569,101 2015 0.42% 259,471 0.26% 293,416 0.33% 552,887 2016 0.39% 257,057 0.23% 291,530 0.31% 548,587 2017 0.40% 250,881 0.27% 284,605 0.33% 535,486 2018 0.41% 241,728 0.24% 271,967 0.32% 513,695 2019 0.38% 230,118 0.23% 257,507 0.31% 487,625 2020 0.48% 200,874 0.30% 223,486 0.38% 424,360 2021 0.45% 202,078 0.28% 223,285 0.36% 425,363 2022 0.47% 191,775 0.28% 211,173 0.37% 402,948 2023 0.44% 186,822 0.26% 204,784 0.35% 391,606 Appendix Table 1 Notes: (1) Fairlie (UCLA) calculations from compiled Current Population Survey microdata. (2) The entrepreneurship index is the percent of individuals (ages 20-64) who do not own a business in the first survey month that start a business in the following month with 15 or more hours worked.
New Entrepreneurship Rate by Gender (1996-2023) Male Female Total Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Year Index Size Index Size Index Size Index Size Index Size 1996 0.33% 403,882 0.21% 54,582 0.32% 43,663 0.29% 20,344 0.32% 529,228 1997 0.29% 402,742 0.19% 55,372 0.32% 45,460 0.23% 20,729 0.28% 531,337 1998 0.31% 402,851 0.18% 54,726 0.27% 46,886 0.25% 21,137 0.29% 532,543 1999 0.28% 401,523 0.21% 54,183 0.31% 48,682 0.24% 21,139 0.27% 532,231 2000 0.28% 395,793 0.23% 55,089 0.29% 52,274 0.22% 21,892 0.27% 532,382 2001 0.27% 418,654 0.21% 57,667 0.29% 53,780 0.30% 23,603 0.27% 561,573 2002 0.28% 469,788 0.24% 61,598 0.30% 57,638 0.26% 26,534 0.28% 624,303 2003 0.30% 456,940 0.23% 58,699 0.40% 59,441 0.29% 23,889 0.30% 614,589 2004 0.31% 444,473 0.22% 56,789 0.34% 59,238 0.28% 24,310 0.30% 603,171 2005 0.29% 438,870 0.23% 55,069 0.31% 60,526 0.26% 25,541 0.28% 598,177 2006 0.30% 429,197 0.24% 55,675 0.34% 64,085 0.31% 26,555 0.30% 592,917 2007 0.30% 422,208 0.22% 56,392 0.40% 63,617 0.33% 26,882 0.30% 585,487 2008 0.31% 420,349 0.22% 56,405 0.46% 64,786 0.34% 28,066 0.32% 585,677 2009 0.33% 423,378 0.27% 57,564 0.46% 65,514 0.31% 28,961 0.34% 591,699 2010 0.31% 418,536 0.24% 60,550 0.56% 67,853 0.37% 30,243 0.34% 593,271 2011 0.29% 411,118 0.23% 59,939 0.52% 67,695 0.32% 31,456 0.32% 586,146 2012 0.29% 405,044 0.21% 58,800 0.40% 68,637 0.31% 32,688 0.30% 580,953 2013 0.27% 396,399 0.19% 58,700 0.38% 69,291 0.28% 32,693 0.28% 572,600 2014 0.29% 390,776 0.22% 59,010 0.46% 70,034 0.33% 33,114 0.31% 569,101 2015 0.32% 375,378 0.23% 60,147 0.46% 68,384 0.29% 32,669 0.33% 552,887 2016 0.28% 369,856 0.22% 59,051 0.48% 70,171 0.34% 33,337 0.31% 548,587 2017 0.30% 361,597 0.30% 56,661 0.50% 68,311 0.31% 33,109 0.33% 535,486 2018 0.29% 346,291 0.24% 52,717 0.51% 66,145 0.33% 32,578 0.32% 513,695 2019 0.29% 327,619 0.24% 50,016 0.44% 63,873 0.30% 30,798 0.31% 487,625 2020 0.36% 286,991 0.38% 43,347 0.52% 53,329 0.35% 28,146 0.38% 424,360 2021 0.33% 282,436 0.28% 44,787 0.54% 56,279 0.36% 28,773 0.36% 425,363 2022 0.33% 264,323 0.34% 41,941 0.59% 55,485 0.30% 28,330 0.37% 402,948 2023 0.28% 255,164 0.34% 39,133 0.60% 56,882 0.31% 27,437 0.35% 391,606 Asian Appendix Table 2 Notes: (1) Fairlie (UCLA) calculations from compiled Current Population Survey microdata. (2) The entrepreneurship index is the percent of individuals (ages 20-64) who do not own a business in the first survey month that start a business in the following month with 15 or more hours worked. (3) Race and Spanish codes changed in 2003. Estimates for 2003 only include individuals reporting one race.
New Entrepreneurship Rate by Race (1996-2023) White Black Latinx Total Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Entrep.
Sample Year Index Size Index Size Index Size 1996 0.31% 473,602 0.36% 55,626 0.32% 529,228 1997 0.27% 473,536 0.33% 57,801 0.28% 531,337 1998 0.28% 472,728 0.31% 59,815 0.29% 532,543 1999 0.26% 471,772 0.32% 60,459 0.27% 532,231 2000 0.26% 467,393 0.32% 64,989 0.27% 532,382 2001 0.26% 493,029 0.31% 68,544 0.27% 561,573 2002 0.26% 550,023 0.36% 74,280 0.28% 624,303 2003 0.29% 540,397 0.38% 74,192 0.30% 614,589 2004 0.28% 529,234 0.41% 73,937 0.30% 603,171 2005 0.28% 523,221 0.33% 74,956 0.28% 598,177 2006 0.28% 514,691 0.38% 78,226 0.30% 592,917 2007 0.27% 507,469 0.46% 78,018 0.30% 585,487 2008 0.28% 507,088 0.52% 78,589 0.32% 585,677 2009 0.30% 511,798 0.51% 79,901 0.34% 591,699 2010 0.28% 510,631 0.62% 82,640 0.34% 593,271 2011 0.27% 503,500 0.55% 82,646 0.32% 586,146 2012 0.26% 498,127 0.49% 82,826 0.30% 580,953 2013 0.25% 491,045 0.43% 81,555 0.28% 572,600 2014 0.27% 487,845 0.52% 81,256 0.31% 569,101 2015 0.29% 474,013 0.53% 78,874 0.33% 552,887 2016 0.26% 469,116 0.52% 79,471 0.31% 548,587 2017 0.28% 457,808 0.56% 77,678 0.33% 535,486 2018 0.27% 437,344 0.53% 76,351 0.32% 513,695 2019 0.28% 416,202 0.44% 71,423 0.31% 487,625 2020 0.34% 363,764 0.59% 60,596 0.38% 424,360 2021 0.32% 362,854 0.58% 62,509 0.36% 425,363 2022 0.31% 341,000 0.65% 61,948 0.37% 402,948 2023 0.28% 329,812 0.67% 61,794 0.35% 391,606 Appendix Table 3 Notes: (1) Fairlie (UCLA) calculations from compiled Current Population Survey microdata. (2) The entrepreneurship index is the percent of individuals (ages 20-64) who do not own a business in the first survey month that start a business in the following month with 15 or more hours worked.
New Entrepreneurship Rate by Nativity (1996-2023) Native-Born Immigrant Total Opp.
Sample Opp.
Sample Opp.
Sample Year Share Size Share Size Share Size 1996 .
.
.
.
81.1% 1,692 1997 .
.
.
.
79.5% 1,570 1998 75.4% 2,680 87.3% 2,213 80.8% 1,631 1999 77.0% 2,554 87.3% 2,114 83.9% 1,467 2000 79.3% 2,528 89.5% 2,107 86.4% 1,537 2001 79.5% 2,501 91.0% 2,010 83.0% 1,507 2002 76.5% 2,694 89.7% 2,097 76.8% 1,747 2003 73.3% 2,881 86.8% 2,227 77.1% 1,854 2004 72.3% 3,133 85.7% 2,301 79.3% 1,833 2005 73.1% 3,132 86.2% 2,322 79.1% 1,767 2006 74.0% 3,083 87.6% 2,307 80.8% 1,790 2007 74.4% 3,068 88.3% 2,227 80.2% 1,738 2008 75.1% 3,146 89.2% 2,168 80.7% 1,786 2009 72.8% 3,284 87.3% 2,177 73.8% 1,937 2010 70.4% 3,404 85.8% 2,239 74.2% 1,920 2011 67.8% 3,434 84.1% 2,248 74.1% 1,825 2012 69.7% 3,333 84.9% 2,192 78.4% 1,780 2013 72.4% 3,092 84.0% 2,122 78.2% 1,609 2014 75.2% 3,060 84.2% 2,063 79.6% 1,734 2015 78.0% 3,071 84.6% 2,100 84.0% 1,828 2016 80.7% 3,136 87.3% 2,112 86.3% 1,686 2017 82.2% 3,065 88.8% 2,192 84.4% 1,743 2018 82.6% 2,940 90.0% 2,128 86.2% 1,639 2019 82.5% 2,822 90.6% 2,054 86.9% 1,494 2020 78.3% 2,737 84.9% 1,970 69.8% 1,574 2021 76.6% 2,642 83.1% 1,895 80.9% 1,469 2022 77.4% 2,594 83.1% 1,858 88.3% 1,409 2023 82.6% 2,472 88.1% 1,721 85.2% 1,315 Notes: (1) Fairlie (UCLA) calculations from compiled Current Population Survey microdata. (2) The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs is the share of all individuals (ages 20-64) who start a business who were not unemployed in the preceding month. (3) Sample sizes are for all three years used to calculate the three-year moving average except for total column.
Appendix Table 4 Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (Annual and 3-Year Moving Average) by Gender Male Female Total Opp.
Tot. Sample Opp.
Tot. Sample Opp.
Tot. Sample Opp.
Tot. Sample Year Share Size Share Size Share Size Share Size 1996 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1997 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1998 82.8% 3,925 67.2% 320 74.4% 407 84.9% 151 1999 83.4% 3,715 72.2% 308 76.2% 419 82.8% 148 2000 84.7% 3,630 76.0% 341 83.1% 434 86.9% 155 2001 85.1% 3,477 79.4% 360 84.4% 443 86.2% 162 2002 82.8% 3,675 74.3% 395 82.9% 463 86.6% 179 2003 80.5% 3,875 69.7% 385 78.8% 546 80.4% 189 2004 79.6% 4,128 68.3% 385 76.0% 582 78.6% 190 2005 80.6% 4,120 68.9% 370 75.5% 594 80.0% 187 2006 81.0% 4,057 70.5% 375 78.3% 569 85.4% 201 2007 81.1% 3,904 71.7% 380 79.0% 625 86.8% 218 2008 81.2% 3,827 75.9% 374 79.7% 716 88.3% 234 2009 79.5% 3,898 73.8% 386 73.8% 788 87.7% 238 2010 77.8% 3,918 73.2% 402 70.0% 900 88.6% 261 2011 76.0% 3,884 68.5% 418 67.8% 957 86.5% 268 2012 77.0% 3,745 69.7% 394 71.0% 945 86.6% 285 2013 78.0% 3,546 71.6% 374 73.8% 858 85.7% 274 2014 79.7% 3,470 74.0% 371 75.3% 830 87.3% 298 2015 81.9% 3,485 76.8% 381 77.2% 852 86.4% 292 2016 84.7% 3,480 76.3% 394 80.7% 904 88.2% 309 2017 85.5% 3,427 80.1% 429 84.7% 933 89.4% 301 2018 86.2% 3,207 80.5% 420 84.8% 965 92.0% 316 2019 86.3% 3,103 82.0% 401 84.7% 927 93.1% 301 2020 82.2% 3,024 75.7% 380 80.0% 862 82.7% 299 2021 80.1% 2,901 73.5% 381 79.7% 824 80.6% 291 2022 80.6% 2,749 74.6% 402 80.5% 867 80.1% 286 2023 84.9% 2,468 81.9% 373 83.7% 927 91.7% 276 Notes: (1) Fairlie (UCLA) calculations from compiled Current Population Survey microdata. (2) The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs is the share of all individuals (ages 20-64) who start a business who were not unemployed in the preceding month. (3) Sample sizes are for all three years used to calculate the three-year moving average.
Asian Appendix Table 5 Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (3-Year Moving Average) by Race White Black Latino Opp.
Sample Opp.
Sample Year Share Size Share Size 1996 .
.
.
.
1997 .
.
.
.
1998 80.7% 4,326 79.1% 567 1999 82.0% 4,104 78.1% 564 2000 83.9% 4,038 82.8% 597 2001 84.4% 3,897 84.6% 614 2002 81.5% 4,104 85.0% 687 2003 78.8% 4,365 80.0% 743 2004 77.9% 4,609 77.3% 825 2005 78.9% 4,639 76.9% 815 2006 79.4% 4,568 81.0% 822 2007 79.5% 4,432 82.1% 863 2008 80.1% 4,340 82.4% 974 2009 78.7% 4,381 76.7% 1,080 2010 77.0% 4,439 74.1% 1,204 2011 74.9% 4,426 71.4% 1,256 2012 75.9% 4,270 74.6% 1,255 2013 77.3% 4,065 75.7% 1,149 2014 78.8% 3,989 78.5% 1,134 2015 80.9% 4,032 79.7% 1,139 2016 83.2% 4,072 83.5% 1,176 2017 84.5% 4,077 85.8% 1,180 2018 84.8% 3,889 87.5% 1,179 2019 85.0% 3,770 88.0% 1,106 2020 80.8% 3,658 81.4% 1,049 2021 78.8% 3,529 80.3% 1,008 2022 79.3% 3,379 80.4% 1,073 2023 83.9% 3,078 86.6% 1,115 Notes: (1) Fairlie (UCLA) calculations from compiled Current Population Survey microdata. (2) The opportunity share of new entrepreneurs is the share of all individuals (ages 20-64) who start a business who were not unemployed in the preceding month. (3) Sample sizes are for all three years used to calculate the three-year moving average.
Appendix Table 6 Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs (3-Year Moving Average) by Immigrant Native-Born Immigrant Appendix Table 7: New Entrepreneurship Rate by State, 3-Year MA (2014-2023) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Alabama 0.22% 0.25% 0.23% 0.24% 0.21% 0.23% 0.25% 0.26% 0.30% 0.29% Alaska 0.45% 0.48% 0.44% 0.40% 0.41% 0.44% 0.48% 0.42% 0.38% 0.32% Arizona 0.31% 0.33% 0.40% 0.39% 0.35% 0.33% 0.38% 0.39% 0.36% 0.27% Arkansas 0.25% 0.27% 0.29% 0.29% 0.29% 0.32% 0.33% 0.35% 0.37% 0.37% California 0.39% 0.39% 0.42% 0.44% 0.45% 0.42% 0.43% 0.43% 0.48% 0.47% Colorado 0.35% 0.33% 0.35% 0.33% 0.35% 0.30% 0.35% 0.42% 0.46% 0.46% Connecticut 0.30% 0.29% 0.27% 0.23% 0.20% 0.19% 0.28% 0.31% 0.39% 0.33% Delaware 0.29% 0.24% 0.20% 0.16% 0.23% 0.25% 0.27% 0.26% 0.23% 0.28% District of Columbia 0.25% 0.23% 0.22% 0.24% 0.27% 0.25% 0.24% 0.22% 0.23% 0.25% Florida 0.35% 0.36% 0.38% 0.42% 0.46% 0.47% 0.53% 0.61% 0.65% 0.60% Georgia 0.29% 0.29% 0.33% 0.38% 0.42% 0.41% 0.36% 0.47% 0.46% 0.46% Hawaii 0.35% 0.33% 0.31% 0.27% 0.30% 0.34% 0.41% 0.35% 0.33% 0.32% Idaho 0.33% 0.32% 0.32% 0.35% 0.38% 0.38% 0.38% 0.33% 0.34% 0.33% Illinois 0.23% 0.23% 0.23% 0.24% 0.25% 0.27% 0.27% 0.28% 0.27% 0.30% Indiana 0.23% 0.23% 0.22% 0.20% 0.21% 0.25% 0.25% 0.23% 0.26% 0.32% Iowa 0.18% 0.18% 0.20% 0.22% 0.28% 0.31% 0.31% 0.22% 0.19% 0.19% Kansas 0.22% 0.27% 0.30% 0.30% 0.27% 0.27% 0.30% 0.28% 0.24% 0.18% Kentucky 0.35% 0.28% 0.25% 0.23% 0.26% 0.26% 0.27% 0.30% 0.29% 0.30% Louisiana 0.33% 0.28% 0.28% 0.31% 0.34% 0.36% 0.37% 0.37% 0.41% 0.41% Maine 0.29% 0.29% 0.29% 0.33% 0.31% 0.37% 0.40% 0.42% 0.42% 0.35% Maryland 0.24% 0.28% 0.26% 0.32% 0.27% 0.30% 0.26% 0.29% 0.31% 0.32% Massachusetts 0.29% 0.29% 0.29% 0.26% 0.23% 0.25% 0.27% 0.27% 0.25% 0.24% Michigan 0.26% 0.29% 0.26% 0.25% 0.23% 0.25% 0.29% 0.29% 0.31% 0.25% Minnesota 0.17% 0.25% 0.28% 0.30% 0.20% 0.18% 0.18% 0.20% 0.22% 0.17% Mississippi 0.34% 0.33% 0.37% 0.37% 0.32% 0.33% 0.32% 0.37% 0.37% 0.38% Missouri 0.28% 0.29% 0.30% 0.32% 0.32% 0.37% 0.37% 0.37% 0.32% 0.27% Montana 0.54% 0.50% 0.43% 0.40% 0.40% 0.34% 0.35% 0.36% 0.41% 0.42% Nebraska 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.30% 0.27% 0.27% 0.28% 0.29% 0.25% Nevada 0.37% 0.38% 0.41% 0.38% 0.34% 0.34% 0.32% 0.34% 0.40% 0.46% New Hampshire 0.25% 0.24% 0.24% 0.24% 0.22% 0.28% 0.31% 0.29% 0.29% 0.27% New Jersey 0.24% 0.32% 0.34% 0.32% 0.29% 0.31% 0.36% 0.37% 0.35% 0.30% New Mexico 0.40% 0.32% 0.35% 0.38% 0.42% 0.40% 0.51% 0.55% 0.54% 0.45% New York 0.33% 0.35% 0.36% 0.33% 0.32% 0.30% 0.39% 0.38% 0.44% 0.41% North Carolina 0.31% 0.33% 0.34% 0.28% 0.27% 0.25% 0.31% 0.34% 0.35% 0.36% North Dakota 0.27% 0.29% 0.31% 0.39% 0.36% 0.38% 0.32% 0.29% 0.24% 0.21% Ohio 0.21% 0.24% 0.24% 0.22% 0.20% 0.20% 0.25% 0.28% 0.29% 0.24% Oklahoma 0.36% 0.40% 0.45% 0.41% 0.39% 0.39% 0.44% 0.44% 0.41% 0.38% Oregon 0.27% 0.31% 0.34% 0.32% 0.27% 0.26% 0.29% 0.34% 0.36% 0.37% Pennsylvania 0.20% 0.18% 0.17% 0.18% 0.19% 0.20% 0.18% 0.17% 0.20% 0.21% Rhode Island 0.20% 0.23% 0.21% 0.18% 0.12% 0.17% 0.16% 0.19% 0.20% 0.23% South Carolina 0.32% 0.29% 0.29% 0.25% 0.26% 0.26% 0.26% 0.29% 0.36% 0.39% South Dakota 0.34% 0.35% 0.31% 0.28% 0.32% 0.29% 0.29% 0.24% 0.31% 0.30% Tennessee 0.24% 0.25% 0.23% 0.26% 0.27% 0.29% 0.35% 0.35% 0.38% 0.33% Texas 0.36% 0.39% 0.40% 0.42% 0.43% 0.41% 0.38% 0.37% 0.45% 0.47% Utah 0.30% 0.28% 0.28% 0.30% 0.29% 0.25% 0.24% 0.25% 0.26% 0.30% Vermont 0.40% 0.36% 0.40% 0.38% 0.36% 0.34% 0.41% 0.42% 0.39% 0.29% Virginia 0.22% 0.24% 0.21% 0.21% 0.18% 0.20% 0.23% 0.26% 0.25% 0.20% Washington 0.24% 0.24% 0.27% 0.32% 0.30% 0.32% 0.27% 0.30% 0.27% 0.31% West Virginia 0.20% 0.21% 0.21% 0.25% 0.21% 0.18% 0.16% 0.17% 0.17% 0.20% Wisconsin 0.17% 0.19% 0.21% 0.26% 0.25% 0.23% 0.22% 0.22% 0.23% 0.18% Wyoming 0.32% 0.39% 0.45% 0.47% 0.45% 0.39% 0.41% 0.41% 0.34% 0.28% Appendix Table 8: Opportunity Share of New Entrepreneurs by State, 3-Year MA (2014-2023) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Alabama 69.0% 66.4% 72.1% 78.9% 84.1% 89.7% 79.9% 77.2% 78.0% 89.9% Alaska 74.1% 71.3% 72.4% 79.2% 82.5% 85.3% 78.4% 77.6% 75.0% 82.4% Arizona 80.9% 80.8% 82.7% 89.6% 85.7% 87.8% 81.4% 78.4% 76.7% 76.8% Arkansas 82.5% 81.4% 82.0% 84.2% 84.5% 86.7% 91.1% 93.1% 92.9% 90.5% California 76.0% 78.5% 82.5% 87.0% 87.9% 87.4% 79.7% 77.6% 76.9% 82.8% Colorado 84.9% 85.1% 87.2% 83.6% 80.4% 85.4% 77.0% 72.6% 73.0% 78.5% Connecticut 74.9% 76.3% 81.1% 81.9% 87.3% 75.1% 74.5% 69.4% 84.9% 92.4% Delaware 83.6% 86.2% 86.1% 93.4% 93.4% 89.0% 85.3% 80.0% 78.8% 81.4% District of Columbia 70.5% 74.3% 72.0% 74.5% 74.0% 71.4% 77.2% 76.6% 79.7% 69.3% Florida 80.3% 79.5% 83.3% 85.4% 86.7% 88.3% 85.7% 86.1% 86.6% 91.7% Georgia 69.7% 76.7% 86.6% 87.3% 90.9% 88.4% 84.0% 81.6% 84.7% 90.7% Hawaii 88.9% 88.7% 84.6% 81.4% 88.7% 88.4% 84.4% 79.8% 78.9% 88.2% Idaho 90.3% 89.4% 89.3% 83.9% 87.9% 87.2% 88.0% 89.3% 90.2% 92.0% Illinois 86.4% 82.2% 78.8% 74.1% 79.5% 83.8% 78.5% 73.7% 76.3% 82.0% Indiana 75.2% 75.0% 80.2% 83.4% 86.8% 90.3% 81.0% 76.3% 69.0% 75.3% Iowa 86.9% 89.6% 92.5% 94.0% 93.6% 85.3% 83.1% 86.9% 97.8% 95.5% Kansas 90.1% 81.2% 82.5% 80.2% 84.5% 88.1% 89.5% 86.3% 81.1% 77.0% Kentucky 69.3% 75.9% 79.9% 85.9% 85.4% 84.8% 79.4% 72.3% 78.7% 89.7% Louisiana 89.2% 86.4% 79.7% 75.6% 71.9% 72.7% 76.9% 82.5% 82.3% 85.5% Maine 80.4% 77.7% 75.2% 78.3% 87.6% 88.4% 85.6% 79.1% 78.3% 81.1% Maryland 84.3% 82.3% 73.1% 75.9% 76.5% 85.6% 79.3% 80.7% 82.0% 88.6% Massachusetts 73.4% 75.7% 85.4% 88.6% 84.6% 78.6% 66.0% 68.7% 74.2% 84.9% Michigan 76.4% 82.0% 84.2% 87.6% 85.3% 82.6% 74.3% 65.1% 70.8% 78.7% Minnesota 73.8% 75.2% 78.6% 88.0% 84.0% 81.6% 66.5% 76.3% 78.0% 97.2% Mississippi 79.7% 81.3% 78.6% 82.5% 86.3% 86.4% 83.9% 81.9% 85.0% 90.9% Missouri 76.8% 83.0% 83.2% 88.5% 84.0% 80.8% 79.0% 81.7% 77.0% 80.0% Montana 84.0% 84.1% 83.9% 86.2% 85.4% 85.6% 78.2% 75.8% 77.1% 85.8% Nebraska 88.7% 90.3% 91.4% 94.0% 92.5% 90.1% 82.4% 77.5% 78.2% 85.9% Nevada 79.3% 87.4% 92.1% 86.8% 85.8% 82.6% 79.9% 76.4% 78.2% 85.9% New Hampshire 72.6% 77.6% 77.4% 82.8% 85.1% 91.0% 82.7% 72.3% 74.4% 82.9% New Jersey 76.1% 85.2% 88.0% 85.5% 87.0% 84.9% 79.8% 72.3% 68.7% 76.7% New Mexico 74.2% 81.1% 79.9% 76.0% 69.5% 75.4% 80.8% 83.1% 81.5% 85.6% New York 81.8% 83.0% 84.1% 87.0% 87.0% 89.3% 83.9% 81.9% 81.1% 83.7% North Carolina 79.2% 82.6% 83.9% 87.2% 90.4% 87.5% 80.4% 76.5% 79.6% 83.4% North Dakota 89.5% 90.8% 87.3% 88.3% 88.2% 92.7% 95.1% 91.3% 87.2% 88.8% Ohio 89.2% 90.7% 88.2% 82.6% 81.4% 75.9% 73.4% 73.8% 80.2% 84.8% Oklahoma 81.9% 84.7% 89.5% 87.7% 85.4% 82.6% 83.9% 84.6% 85.9% 85.1% Oregon 72.6% 75.8% 76.1% 80.0% 89.9% 90.0% 85.7% 76.6% 73.0% 76.6% Pennsylvania 71.5% 75.6% 83.0% 84.7% 86.5% 87.3% 83.1% 77.9% 79.5% 86.0% Rhode Island 87.8% 87.3% 80.4% 68.7% 72.5% 84.0% 80.7% 66.9% 61.7% 73.3% South Carolina 72.6% 79.8% 79.6% 77.6% 83.3% 84.9% 85.2% 84.0% 84.8% 87.3% South Dakota 86.9% 84.4% 89.7% 92.7% 94.1% 96.2% 83.0% 84.7% 76.8% 90.1% Tennessee 70.0% 78.2% 88.7% 89.4% 88.1% 91.5% 88.0% 81.1% 81.5% 88.3% Texas 80.6% 81.0% 84.6% 83.8% 84.6% 83.6% 79.6% 79.6% 80.0% 84.7% Utah 85.8% 83.6% 88.1% 90.0% 89.5% 91.5% 86.0% 91.4% 91.6% 94.6% Vermont 79.4% 75.7% 78.3% 76.5% 78.7% 82.3% 79.2% 75.2% 76.2% 86.0% Virginia 81.4% 82.5% 77.6% 79.9% 76.1% 83.5% 80.1% 79.9% 75.3% 75.3% Washington 76.2% 81.3% 87.4% 92.0% 90.1% 87.9% 74.0% 75.7% 71.7% 83.1% West Virginia 77.6% 78.8% 85.7% 89.0% 90.4% 85.3% 85.3% 82.3% 83.6% 85.1% Wisconsin 71.2% 74.2% 66.4% 73.3% 68.4% 84.4% 83.4% 85.2% 82.6% 88.9% Wyoming 88.7% 89.5% 86.4% 85.6% 88.3% 91.8% 88.0% 85.2% 88.8% 92.4%
