---
{
  "source_id": 415,
  "url": "https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/business%20functions/mckinsey%20digital/our%20insights/how%20ceos%20are%20turning%20corporate%20venture%20building%20into%20outsize%20growth/how-ceos-are-turning-corporate-venture-building-into-outsize-growth.pdf",
  "source_domain": "mckinsey.com",
  "source_type": "investor",
  "reliability_label": "medium_high",
  "title": "How CEOs are turning",
  "fetched_at": "2026-05-20T22:09:29.109697+00:00",
  "extraction_method": "tavily_extract",
  "tavily_request_id": "6d268102-e4e0-4bee-a1f9-0d4f2c304bad",
  "tavily_response_time": 16.9,
  "tavily_usage": {
    "credits": 2
  },
  "favicon": null,
  "images": []
}
---

# How CEOs are turning

October 2024 

# How CEOs are turning 

# corporate venture building 

# into outsize growth 

Companies are creating meaningful growth by developing new ventures. 

Those with the most mature capabilities are growing quickly and can show 

the way for companies that are just beginning. 

This article is a collaborative effort by Belkis Vasquez-McCall, Daniel Aminetzah, Markus Berger-de León, 

and Paul Jenkins, with Shaun Collins, representing views from Leap by McKinsey and McKinsey Digital. Amid geopolitical tensions , easing inflation in developed economies, and expected interest 

rate cuts in some of the world’s largest economies, 1 half of CEOs surveyed in the fifth annual 

McKinsey Global Survey  on new-venture building view the development of new business 

ventures as one of their top three strategic priorities. 

In tracking the sentiment and priority of new-venture building in the past half-decade in the only 

longitudinal survey of its kind, this research has found surprising resilience in the prioritization 

of new-venture building, in spite of the unprecedented disruption of the COVID-19 pandemic 

and rapidly tightening capital conditions. Going forward, we anticipate that more and more 

companies will pursue growth and diversification through venture building, be it new verticals or 

businesses enabled by generative AI (gen AI), in particular once monetary conditions ease. 

The latest survey of more than 1,100 business leaders finds that companies that prioritize venture 

building are doing so for growth (see sidebar, “About the research”). While creating new ventures 

has always been an effective way to accelerate revenue growth, today’s technology innovations 

have heightened the opportunity—and the pressure—to do so. The types of new ventures 

receiving the most interest vary by industry, and 60 percent of respondents are eager to pursue 

gen-AI-enabled ventures in the next five years. This article reports such findings and explores 

the types of new gen-AI-powered ventures that business leaders are expecting to build. 

The primary constraint on companies that haven’t been able to prioritize venture building is 

capital availability, though many companies have found solutions to this challenge. Those that 

have are reaping the benefits: the survey findings suggest that companies investing 20 percent  

> 1Sven Smit, Jeffrey Condon, and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, “ Global Economics Intelligence executive summary, July 2024 ,”
> McKinsey, August 23, 2024.

For the past five years , results from 

McKinsey Global Surveys on corpo -

rate venture building—also known as 

“new-business building,” which was the 

term used in the survey—have created 

the only data set of its kind. The research 

tracks venture-building activity and 

priority globally. It also investigates the 

factors that contribute to success with 

new ventures. 

“New-venture building” refers to the 

creation of new revenues through new 

products, services, or businesses for 

which new capabilities are required and 

includes both entire build-from-scratch 

efforts and venture building supported by 

acquisition. Venture building can come in 

different forms, including a new delivery 

model for an existing business, such as a 

financial-services company moving into a 

direct-to-consumer channel via an e-com -

merce platform; new product lines for 

existing customers, such as a smartphone 

producer offering audio accessories; new 

products for new customers, such as a 

textile producer starting a clothing brand; 

and acquiring and scaling a business with 

a novel proposition, such as an automotive 

company purchasing technology or assets 

to build an electric-vehicle brand. 

About the research 

This year’s survey was in the field from 

May 21 to July 2, 2024, and garnered 

responses from 1,176 senior managers 

and C-suite executives representing the 

full range of regions, industries, company 

sizes, and functional specialties. To adjust 

for differences in response rates, the 

data are weighted by the contribution of 

each respondent’s nation to global GDP. 

All data have been calculated after remov -

ing the share of respondents selecting 

“don’t know.” 

> 2How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth

of their growth capital into building entirely new ventures achieve revenue growth that’s two 

percentage points higher than that of companies that do not invest in new-venture building. 

Business leaders are seeing the emergence of an expert class of venture builders, with mature 

support structures and capabilities that assist them with serial venture building. They have 

different approaches than other companies to funding, setup, leadership, talent, and capability 

building. And they see organic growth that’s 2.8 percentage points higher, as well as twice the 

success rate (the rate of meeting or exceeding expectations for scale and growth), compared 

with companies that respondents deem novices (the companies that respondents say have 

limited capabilities or structures to support venture building). The evolution of these experts may 

in part explain the finding that the largest new ventures built by incumbent companies in the past 

decade have achieved 1.5 times the revenue of the largest start-ups. 

Corporate venture building continues to show resilience in the face 

of capital constraints 

Just over half of surveyed CEOs consider venture building one of their top three strategic 

priorities, in line with the 2023 findings. While years of rising interest rates 2 have led to a smaller 

share of CEOs prioritizing venture building than seen during the early years of the COVID-19 

pandemic, its prioritization is still more common than it was before the pandemic (Exhibit 1). 

Exhibit 1  

> Web <2024>
> <Newventure> Exhibit <1> of <10>
> 1Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” ²SOFR was taken as an average for each period, with 2017–2019 starting in April 2018 (when SOFR was first published). ³Data are from 2020 survey, which asked, “From 2017 to 2019, how important was building new businesses compared with other strategic priorities at your organization?” Source: FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, accessed Sept 2024; McKinsey Global Surveys on new-venture building, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024

CEOs’ prioritization of new-venture building remains in line with the period before the COVID-19 pandemic, despite the rising cost of capital. Share of CEOs who say new-venture building is a top 3 strategic priority, %1

Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), %2

> McKinsey & Company

010 20 30 40 50 60 70 01234567201719³ 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 201719 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Prepandemic Pandemic Current Prepandemic Pandemic Current  

> 2

The secured overnight financing rate (SOFR) was used following the transition from the globally accepted London Interbank 

offered rate (LIBOR) at the end of 2021. SOFR is compliant with international best practices. 

3How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth Respondents who say their companies have experienced a decline in prioritizing venture 

building most often point to capital constraints as the primary reason, while those prioritizing 

venture building are largely driven by a desire for growth (Exhibit 2). Given predictions that 

interest rates will taper—and given the resilience of interest in venture building—it’s easy to 

imagine a potential uptick in the creation of new ventures in the near term. 

Exhibit 2 

> Web <2024>
> <Newventure> Exhibit <2> of <10>

Limited capital is the predominant reason why some companies are decreasing venture building; others are prioritizing it to pursue growth. Factors that motivated respondents’ organizations to decrease prioritization of new-venture building in past 12 months, % of respondents reporting a decrease in prioritization (n = 128) 1

> McKinsey & Company

Limited availability of capital for new-business building due to a worsening funding environment Limited availability of capital for new-business building due to reduced margins in core business Lack of disruptive tech advancements or capabilities to support new business models Reduced prioritization of growth Increase in customer demand for current products or services 

Factors that motivated respondents’ organizations to increase prioritization of new-venture building in past 12 months, % of respondents reporting an increase in prioritization (n = 616) 1Increased prioritization of growth Shift in customer demand Emergence of disruptive tech Freed-up capital for new areas due to improved margins in core business Recovery from downturn or challenges specific to core organization’s industry 1 Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” Respondents who said “other” or “none of the above” are not shown. Respondents were asked to select all answers that applied. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024 36 24 21 21 21 50 43 29 25 21 

4How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth Looking ahead, most surveyed CEOs expect to develop new ventures in the coming year: about 

two-thirds expect to build new ventures—more than the share expecting strategic moves such 

as joint ventures, M&A, and organizational transformations (Exhibit 3). CEOs are 1.3 times more 

likely than other business leaders to expect their organizations to build new ventures in the year 

ahead. While more than half of other business leaders see venture building as likely, they more 

often expect to see organizational transformations. 

That difference suggests that CEOs may need to do more work to align other leaders 

around their priorities. Other business leaders, CFOs included, tend to be more focused on 

organizational restructuring, possibly reflecting today’s economic pressures. Creating space 

on leaders’ agendas for venture building and communicating that it’s a growth priority will be 

important for CEOs. 

Exhibit 3   

> Web <2024>
> <Newventure> Exhibit <3> of <10>
> 1Respondents who answered “none of the above” are not shown. For CEOs, n = 177. For other business leaders, n = 991. 2Survey asked about “business building (ie, creation of new revenues through new products, services, or businesses that require new capabilities).” Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024

New-venture building is the strategic move expected most often by CEOs, though there’s variance among CEOs and other business leaders. Share of respondents who expect their organization to make given strategic move in next 12 months, %1

> McKinsey & Company

Corporate venture capital activities Divestitures or carve-outs Significantly reallocated resources across organization Rebranding of entire organization or core businesses Significantly accelerated investment in green tech, renewable-energy sources, or other carbon-reduction initiatives Enterprise-wide digital transformation or transformation of core tech stack M&A Joint venture or strategic alliance Strategic diversification Organizational transformation Venture building 20 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 CEOs Other business leaders 

5How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth A little investment can lead to big businesses 

At companies that are increasingly prioritizing new-venture building, respondents most often say 

the efforts are driven by a desire for growth—and for good reason. Our latest findings suggest 

that companies that invest 20 percent or more of their growth capital into building entirely new 

ventures have revenue growth that’s two percentage points higher than that of those that don’t 

invest anything. 3 This becomes even more pronounced with larger organizations: venture-

building companies of $1 billion or more in annual revenues that invest at that level garner 

revenue growth that’s 2.5 percentage points higher than that of those investing nothing. This 

uplift could constitute nearly 50 percent in additional growth for organizations with $1 billion 

or more in annual revenues, whose mean growth rates globally are 5.2 percent—and an even 

greater incremental uplift if looking at the median growth rate, which is 3.7 percent. 4

The survey findings suggest that investing 20 percent of growth capital might be the sweet spot 

for capturing value. Respondents reporting smaller investments see smaller returns, whereas 

those devoting larger amounts to venture building don’t report meaningfully more growth 

(Exhibit 4). Yet just 38 percent of respondents are investing that much of their growth capital, 

suggesting that nearly two in three are leaving potential value on the table. 

McKinsey commentary 

Belkis Vasquez-McCall 

Partner 

Even with restrictions  in capital availability and higher interest rates, there is a greater 

awareness of, and commitment to, venture building. This isn’t seen just with classical tech 

companies; this focus is spreading to many other companies as well. We know that one of the 

top three priorities for companies is rewiring how they work, and corporate venture building is 

an integral part of that strategy. 

One thing that we’re noticing is that with the difficulties in accessing capital, some companies 

are turning to external capital. Not every CEO will want to get into that model, but external 

funding sources—either venture capital or private equity organizations—can provide not 

just capital but access to talent and venture-building experience. For this model to work, 

it’s crucial to have a clear set of expectations with external partners, with a line of sight into 

funding (over a three-year period, for example), and how the new venture might be bought 

or spun off.   

> 3Survey respondents were asked about their organizations’ growth capital allocation for entirely new businesses and rate
> of organic revenue growth in the past 12 months compared with that of their primary competitors. The answer choices were
> more than 10 percent below the industry average, 4 to 10 percent below the industry average, 1 to 3 percent below the
> industry average, the same as the industry average, 1 to 3 percent above the industry average, 4 to 10 percent above the
> industry average, and more than 10 percent above the industry average. Midpoints were used for each of the revenue growth
> ranges, with –15 percent used for the bottom group and 15 percent for the top group.
> 4The average growth rate is from 2022–23 and is based on all private sector companies with annual revenues over $1 billion,
> using data from S&P Capital IQ, S&P Global, accessed September 2024.
> 6How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth

McKinsey commentary 

Paul Jenkins 

Senior partner 

Sometimes when you read reports , your eyes can start to glaze over with all the various 

stats, so I want to call attention to something stunning. Our research shows that investing 

only about 20 percent of your growth capital into venture building is enough to generate a 

2 percent lift in growth per annum. For most companies, that’s a truly astounding ROI. 

That 20 percent is particularly interesting, because it’s something of a sweet spot when it 

comes to getting the greatest ROI. Invest less, and you don’t get a correspondingly lower ROI 

but, in fact, much less ROI. By the same token, if you invest more, you don’t get greater ROI. 

The rate of return starts to peter out after 20 percent. 

We’re planning on doing more analysis to better understand why that’s the case. But this 

insight of a 20 percent sweet spot provides a compelling counterpoint to an issue we often 

see, which is that some companies approach building a new venture as a bit of a hedge or a 

side project and don’t invest enough in it. That’s a surefire recipe for failure. 

Exhibit 4  

> Web <2024>
> <Newventure> Exhibit <4> of <10>
> 1For respondents reporting 10% of growth capital invested in new-business building, n = 183; for 20%, n = 160; for 30%, n = 63; and for ≥40%, n = 60. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024

Survey findings suggest that investing at least 20 percent of growth capital in new-venture building yields meaningful rewards. Organic revenue growth in companies investing in new-venture building over those not investing, percentage-point difference 

> McKinsey & Company

Share of growth capital invested in new-venture building, ¹ %≥40 30 20 10 2.3 1.9 2.0 1.3 

> 7How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth

The survey also explored what share of investment would be needed for new ventures to 

deliver the share of total revenues desired by their parent organizations’ leaders. Respondents 

on average expect to achieve 24 percent of their organizations’ revenues from new ventures in 

five years’ time. To achieve this share, many companies will need to meaningfully increase their 

level of investment. In fact, the findings suggest that those that achieve this share have invested 

2.4 times the average of those that are targeting that share but haven’t achieved it. 5

Indeed, incumbents have proved their impressive ability to build high-revenue ventures. 

Additional research finds that the ten largest new ventures built by established companies in the 

past decade have averaged 1.5 times more revenue than that of the largest start-ups launched 

in the same period. 6 These new ventures can benefit from their core organizations’ access to 

customers, brand, and expertise, often enabling them to scale revenues quickly. 

What’s more, venture building can affect more than just revenues for an organization. Survey 

respondents report that new ventures launched by their companies in the past five years have 

generated 16 percent of their enterprise value, while revenue created by new-venture building 

was 13 percent. 7

Venture building starts with uncovering hidden treasures within 

an organization 

The latest survey results show that, for most companies, opportunity is ripe to build new 

ventures from existing assets. Nearly nine in ten surveyed business leaders say their organizations 

have at least one asset with unrealized commercial potential. Most often, they see opportunities 

with data and with intellectual property or novel technologies, though the potential varies by 

industry (Exhibit 5). 

5 Companies that respondents say will achieve the average revenue share target of 24 percent are investing an average of 

about 28 percent of growth capital into business building, while those that aren’t meeting that target are investing an 

average of about 12 percent. 

6 These analyses looked at the average revenue in 2023 for the top ten largest start-ups and top ten new ventures founded 

by incumbent companies in the past decade using data from Crunchbase; PitchBook; S&P Capital IQ, S&P Global; and Y 

Combinator; all accessed September 2024. 

7 Survey respondents selected the share of total enterprise-wide revenue that new businesses contribute to their companies 

and the share of enterprise-wide value (total value of organization) that can be attributed to new businesses from the 

following options: 0 percent, 1 to 3 percent, 4 to 10 percent, 11 to 20 percent, 21 to 30 percent, 31 to 40 percent, 41 to 

50 percent, 51 to 60 percent, 61 to 70 percent, 71 to 80 percent, 81 to 90 percent, 91 to 100 percent, and above 100 percent. 

Midpoints were used for each range, with 110 percent being used for the top category. Weighted averages were used to 

calculate the enterprise-wide revenue and value coming from new-venture building. 

# The ten largest new ventures built 

# by established companies in the past 

# decade have averaged 1.5 times more 

# revenue than that of the largest start-

# ups launched in the same period. 

8How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth For example, respondents in healthcare and consumer goods and retail most often say their 

companies have products developed for internal uses that could be sold externally, while 

respondents working in financial services point to data assets that could be monetized. In 

advanced industries 8 and technology, media, and telecommunications, respondents often say 

their companies have intellectual property or novel technologies around which new ventures 

could be built. This finding provides a starting point for where to look to accelerate value from 

unrealized potential. 

Exhibit 5  

> 1

For respondents reporting 10% of growth capital invested in new-business building, n = 183; for 20%, n = 160; for 30%, n = 63; and for ≥40%, n = 60. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024 

Web <2024> 

<LeapNewventure> Exhibit <5> of <10> 

Note: Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” 1For respondents in advanced industries (advanced electronics, aerospace and defense, automotive and assembly, and semiconductors), n = 108; consumer goods and retail, n = 90; energy and materials, n = 129; financial services, n = 150; healthcare, n = 113; pharma and medical products, n = 102; tech, media, and telecom, n = 175; and travel, logistics, and infrastructure, n = 145. ²Calculated based on inverse of respondents who selected “none of the above.” Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024 

Across industries, most respondents indicate that their organizations have at least one asset with underrealized potential. 

McKinsey & Company 

Data assets that could be monetized Intellectual property or novel tech around which new businesses could be built Subscale new businesses that could be commercially accelerated Products developed for internal uses that could be sold externally 

Share of respondents who say their organization possesses given asset with unrealized commercial potential, %1XX Advanced industries Consumer goods and retail Financial services Energy and materials Healthcare Tech, media, and telecom Travel, logistics, and infrastructure Total Pharma and medical products Internal capabilities that could be sold externally 31 39 16 17 30 12 24 40 28 36 17 19 27 15 33 24 41 28 30 21 30 33 23 15 30 40 27 27 25 35 15 43 36 23 26 27 24 25 24 27 25 17 27 17 23 87 84 93 80 85 78 84 94 86 

Share of respondents 

reporting ≥1 asset with unrealized potential, 2 % 

> 8

Advanced industries includes respondents working in advanced electronics, aerospace and defense, automotive and 

assembly, and semiconductors. 

9How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth When building new ventures, capitalize on distinctive advantages 

Organizations benefit when they capitalize on their distinctive advantages and scale them as 

new growth opportunities. Venture building requires recognizing those advantages and staying 

true to them. In 2023, we saw that data, analytics, and AI platforms were the type of new venture 

that the largest share of respondents expected to build in the next five years. The latest survey 

results find that, relative to 2023, companies are more likely to plan to build data, analytics, and 

AI platforms. However, opportunities vary by industry (Exhibit 6). 

Respondents working in advanced industries such as automotive, aerospace, and 

semiconductors and in pharmaceuticals and medical products most often see opportunity in 

physical products. Those in consumer goods and retail, on the other hand, most often expect to 

build digital retail ventures. Across industries such as technology, media, and telecommunication 

and travel, transportation, and logistics, business leaders point to data, analytics, and AI 

platforms most often as an area for building new ventures. 

Overall, nearly half of respondents who expect to build new ventures predict that they will create 

such a business in the next five years, up 11 percentage points from  the 2023 results . Examples 

of new ventures that could be built in this space are a medical-device company building software 

that uses its data to provide treatment-related insights to clinicians and a cloud-hosting provider 

creating an application that uses gen AI to help insurance companies identify suspicious claims. 

Responses from leaders in travel, logistics, and infrastructure and in healthcare show the 

greatest uptick in interest in data- and AI-enabled ventures since 2023. 

McKinsey commentary 

Daniel Aminetzah 

Senior partner 

If you go across all the companies  in different sectors and geographies, you’ll find that 

venture building is highly relevant. This underscores the reality that innovation isn’t just the 

arena of big tech and AI start-ups, especially given the surge in transitions and change that 

are redefining value pools and the roles that traditional companies can play. 

One thing that’s driving this change is the range of the new technologies emerging and 

how fast they’re redefining barriers to entry for companies. Even those companies that are 

enjoying success from a strong position in the market—whether from a product or access to 

customers—can see things turn very quickly. Few companies should feel comfortable with 

their current advantages. 

On the other side of the coin, these very technologies and forces of disruption can allow 

incumbent companies the chance to bring their assets into new markets and territories 

that haven’t historically been there. If a CEO isn’t making a concerted effort at building new 

ventures, they’re taking a real risk in their company’s legacy and relevance. 

Getting to the necessary level of commitment requires CEOs to be able to reimagine their 

roles and where their companies might be. And it requires an ability to understand the art 

of the possible—how new technologies, trends, collaborations, and circumstances open 

new opportunities. 

> 10 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth

Surveyed respondents also continue to see sustainability-focused ventures as opportunities. 

New ventures centered on environmental sustainability are now the second-most commonly 

expected ones over the next five years, up from fourth in 2023 and sixth in 2022. Sustained 

interest in these ventures coincides with recent technological advancements, such as cleaner 

materials, and with companies building better, more sustainable new products. Interest is most 

concentrated within the energy and materials sector. 9

Exhibit 6 

Business leaders expect to build new ventures in areas with the most potential value—and most see AI as an opportunity. 

McKinsey & Company 

Physical products (including hardware) Environmental-sustainability-focused ventures Ecosystem or marketplace Digital retail Connected products (ie, Internet of Things) Other services (eg, remote healthcare delivery) 52 26 65 45 24 21 42 641 27 327 26 34 23 18 16 739 32 28 44 11 726 12 52 65 22 12 17 748 28 17 14 12 21 20 22 52 19 24 33 26 25 18 15 45 746 11 15 19 25 14 48 25 29 31 27 25 23 13 Data, analytics, and AI platforms Everything as a service² 

Types of new ventures expected to be built by respondents’ organizations in next 5 years, by industry, % of respondents who expect their organization to build ventures in next 5 years 171 57 15 17 31 21 31 11 Advanced industries Consumer goods and retail Financial services Energy and materials Healthcare Tech, media, and telecom Total Travel, logistics, and infrastructure Pharma and medical products 1Respondents were able to make multiple selections. Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” For respondents in advanced industries, n = 82; consumer goods and retail, n = 69; energy and materials, n = 106; financial services, n = 111; healthcare, n = 62; pharma and medical products, n = 65; tech, media, and telecom, n = 133; and travel, logistics, and infrastructure, n = 112. ²For example, subscription services or subscription software. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024  

> pdf ex6
> 9

The energy and materials sector includes respondents working in agriculture, chemicals, electric power and natural gas, oil 

and gas, and paper and packaging. 

11 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth Interest in gen-AI-enabled ventures is surging—though companies are at the early 

stages of capturing value 

Most surveyed leaders who expect their companies to build new ventures in the coming half-

decade see potential value in developing a gen-AI-enabled venture. In fact, six in ten say their 

organizations are already pursuing them. Respondents’ expectations for the types of gen-AI-

related ventures their organizations will build vary based on where they expect to derive the most 

value from gen AI within their industries (Exhibit 7). 

Copilot businesses, in which gen AI reduces effort or improves decision making, are the most 

expected gen-AI-related venture across industries—particularly in service-oriented or frontline-

heavy industries. About half of business leaders who report that their companies are planning 

to build new ventures expect the building of a copilot business, with the largest shares from the 

healthcare and the technology, media, and telecommunication sectors. In healthcare, 

examples include scribing solutions that capture medical notes and document medical 

follow-ups (such as prescriptions) and virtual assistants that can optimize both provider 

operations and patient experiences. 

Exhibit 7 

> 1Generative AI enabled. ²Respondents were able to make multiple selections. Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” For respondents in advanced industries (advanced electronics, aerospace and defense, automotive and assembly, and semiconductors), n = 68; consumer goods and retail, n = 56; energy and materials, n = 73; financial services, n = 91; healthcare, n = 58; pharma and medical products, n = 56; tech, media, and telecom, n = 119; and travel, logistics, and infrastructure, n = 83. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024

Business leaders’ expectations for the greatest opportunities for generative-AI-enabled new ventures vary by sector. 

> McKinsey & Company

Copilot business in which gen AI reduces effort or improves decision making Hyperpersonalized, customer-facing proposition Digital equivalent of current business model powered by gen AI throughout value chain New distribution channel offering gen-AI-supported services to customers through partners 

Types of gen-AI-enabled 1 ventures expected to be built by respondents’ organizations in next 5 years, by industry, % of respondents who expect their organization to build gen-AI-enabled ventures in next 5 years 260 53 45 49 65 46 46 53 65 46 68 31 32 55 54 39 47 44 28 68 34 36 26 30 46 41 36 16 35 48 25 12 23 5 23 22 Advanced industries Consumer goods and retail Financial services Energy and materials Healthcare Tech, media, and telecom Travel, logistics, and infrastructure Total Pharma and medical products 

> pdf ex7

12 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth By comparison, respondents working in financial services and in travel, logistics, and 

infrastructure see strong potential for hyperpersonalization, naming this as the gen-AI-enabled 

venture that they most expect their organizations to build. In financial services, for example, gen-

AI-powered wealth advice—presented via gen AI tools or chatbots—could enhance personalized 

services and make recommendations accessible to much larger audiences at a cost previously 

not possible. Respondents in financial services also see promise in new ventures in which core 

aspects of the value chain are powered by gen AI. In insurance, for example, these ventures could 

include gen-AI-powered underwriting of insurance policies for segments that weren’t previously 

served, such as microenterprises. Meanwhile, respondents in consumer goods and retail see the 

most promise within ventures related to distribution channels. 

These are still early days for companies seeking value from gen AI . Of those building businesses 

around gen AI capabilities, 73 percent say their organizations are still in the ideation and early-

development stages. Yet 13 percent of respondents say their companies are already in the value-

realization stage of their gen-AI-related venture, and the number is as high as 22 percent within 

pharmaceuticals and medical products. 

McKinsey commentary 

Markus Berger-de León 

Senior partner 

It’s really striking  to me that about 90 percent of executives in our survey believe that they 

have at least one asset that they could turn into a business. That’s amazing. And it highlights 

how much potential there is in almost every company for building a new venture. 

Of course, not everyone makes the leap from understanding that they have an asset with 

value to turning that into a business. In many cases, this is a perceived issue of limited money, 

time, and resources. But in fact, venture building often is one of the best value creation 

opportunities that a company has. 

For those that do make the leap successfully, it starts with a venture builder that can 

overcome the failure of imagination. The builder has the entrepreneurial mind to look at 

an asset, which is often treated as a cost center, and see how it could become, at scale, a 

business that generates new revenue and profits for the company. Importantly, these assets 

already exist and are already helping the company. They’re not just vaporware. 

In fact, a product or service that’s already in use to scratch an itch is a great starting point 

because it’s easy to show to potential customers. And while there are significant challenges in 

turning an asset into a successful new venture, the proliferation of technologies—from APIs to 

cloud services to generative AI capabilities—is making it much easier to overcome potential 

obstacles that could exist for externalizing an asset. 

> 13 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth

New-venture building is a learned skill that can bring outsize returns 

This year’s survey findings show what companies have implicitly demonstrated for years: the 

organizations that have developed the capabilities to programmatically build new ventures see 

the most success per business. These expert venture builders have double the success rate of 

organizations with less mature venture-building capabilities and generate larger revenues from 

their new business ventures. The latest findings show how companies that are new to venture 

building can speed up their own maturity and begin to build effectively from the start. 

Practice makes perfect 

According to the survey results, as companies mature in their new-venture-building practices, 

the likelihood of their new businesses’ success dramatically improves (Exhibit 8). Expert builders 

are about twice as likely as novice builders to see success—that is, the new venture meets or 

exceeds expectations for scale and growth. Responses also suggest that these companies 

are seeing growth rates that are an average of 2.8 percentage points higher than that of 

novice builders. 

Reported returns also increase with the maturity of new-venture-building capabilities. On 

average, expert builders see 12 times more revenue in a venture’s fifth year than do novices, 10 

despite investing only twice the amount of capital prior to breaking even (Exhibit 9). 

Exhibit 8 

Web <2024> 

<Newventure> Exhibit <8> of <10>  

> Note: Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know” or “other.” Figures may not sum to 100%, because of rounding. 1Respondents were asked about new businesses built by their organization in past 2–5 years and to categorize their organizations’ maturity level with new-business building. “Novice” refers to companies reported by respondents to be focused almost exclusively on core businesses, with limited capabilities or structures to support new-business building. “Expert” refers to companies reported by respondents to have strong foundational capabilities in place to support new-business building, yielding meaningful new revenues, and those reported to be industry leaders for new-business building, with proven and continually improving capabilities and structures and abilities to launch and scale new businesses, resulting in significant shares of company revenues coming from them. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024

Expert builders see more new ventures meeting or exceeding expectations for 

scale and growth than others do. Outcome and maturity of new ventures built between 2 and 5 years ago, 1 % of respondents 

> McKinsey & Company

New venture continues to operate; performing in line with or exceeding expectations for scale and growth New venture continues to operate; performing below expectations for scale and growth New venture (or essential parts of it) has been sold; might or might not be operational New venture has ceased to operate Novice Expert Overall 27 54 42 44 423 631 525 17 Intermediate 39 33 524 22  

> 10

Survey respondents were asked about the new venture launched by their company in the past five years with which they’re 

most familiar, with the following options for revenue: less than $1 million, $1 million to $5 million, $6 million to $10 million, 

$11 million to $25 million, $26 million to $50 million, $51 million to $75 million, $76 million to $100 million, $101 million to 

$250 million, $251 million to $500 million, $501 million to $750 million, $751 million to $999 million, $1 billion to $2 billion, 

and more than $2 billion. Midpoints were used for each of those ranges, with $2.5 billion used for the top category of more 

than $2 billion. For each maturity category, the weighted average was used to calculate revenue values. 

14 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth Six key actions for building like an expert 

Success in new-venture building can be learned from those that are the best at it. We grouped 

the factors that distinguish experts from novices, based on our experience and the research, 

into six actions for success. We also find that these factors can affect revenue expectations. 

When looking specifically at the factors in place for individual new ventures, the data suggest 

that the new ventures that respondents say have a majority of the factors in place see 3.4 times 

more revenue from new ventures in their fifth year than did new businesses that didn’t have any 

in place. 

1. Take a disciplined portfolio approach.  Understanding that the stakes are high, expert builders 

spread their bets. They have built an average of about six new ventures in the past five years, 

whereas novices have built fewer than two during that time. 

Experts have also developed effective processes to help them create many new ventures. 

They’re more than three times likelier than novices to have an established framework and 

process in place for identifying, evaluating, building, and launching new ventures. Novices, 

therefore, can fall at the first hurdle, building a venture that doesn’t have a clear market or 

defined needs. They’re three times more likely than experts to build the wrong venture—that 

is, one without a good product or market fit. Experts, on the other hand, clear this hurdle and 

concentrate on the next big challenge: creating growth. 11 

Exhibit 9 

Web <2024> 

<Newventure> Exhibit <9> of <10> 

Note: Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” 1 Respondents were asked about new businesses launched in past 5 years that they were most familiar with and about revenues and investment, using ranges. Revenues and investments were calculated using midpoints of those ranges. For top range, “>$2 billion,” $2.5 billion was used. For each maturity category, weighted average was used to calculate revenue values. ²Respondents were asked to categorize their organizations’ maturity level with new-business building. “Novice” refers to companies reported by respondents to be focused almost exclusively on core businesses, with limited capabilities or structures to support new-business building. “Expert” refers to companies reported by respondents to have strong foundational capabilities in place to support new-business building, yielding meaningful new revenues, and those reported to be industry leaders for new-business building, with proven and continually improving capabilities and structures and abilities to launch and scale new businesses, resulting in significant shares of company revenues coming from them. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024 

Expert builders see outsize ROI from their new ventures. Revenue of and investment in new ventures, ¹ by new-venture-building maturity, ² $ million 

McKinsey & Company 

Novice (n = 58) 13 57 111 154 Expert (n = 139) Novice (n = 81) Expert (n = 212) 

Revenue from new venture in year 5 Average investment before breaking even 

## 12.0× 1.9× 

The average number of 

new ventures built by 

experts in the past 5 

years is 6, while novices 

have built fewer than 2 

# 6 

> 11

The survey question asked respondents to think of one of the new businesses built by their organizations that’s performing 

below expectations for scale and growth that they believe has the potential for commercial acceleration and what measures, 

if any, would most improve its performance. 

15 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth When taking a portfolio approach to building new ventures, experts also develop in other 

dimensions that support serial venture building, such as having the right incentives and 

infrastructure in place. For example, experts are nearly three times more likely than novices to 

have mechanisms to incentivize the success of new businesses, such as bonuses and feedback 

from a C-level sponsor. They also tend to have the technology and infrastructure necessary 

to build a new venture. That can include having a clear strategy for where and how to store 

data, scalable data and analytics platforms, and access to technology vendors with any 

needed capabilities. 

2. Dedicate funding.  Organizations that are expert corporate venture builders understand 

that the funding for new ventures should be committed up front and protected, and they invest 

meaningfully to help those ventures scale. 12  Expert builders are 2.6 times more likely than 

novices to have financial resources dedicated to new-venture creation. 

We also find that experts’ investments reflect a broader trend in new venture building: they’re 

willing to invest more capital in individual ventures and, as a result, create larger new ventures. 

That growth doesn’t come free is an unavoidable truth. The survey findings suggest that 

companies that invest $3 million can expect an $8 million business after five years, and those 

that invest $30 million can expect a $90 million business. 

3. Balance independence with connection to the core.  Most companies building new ventures, 

expert and novice alike, benefit from access to the core organization’s capabilities or other 

assets. For example, about half of survey respondents from both expert and novice builders 

say their new ventures can take advantage of the core organization’s customer base (Exhibit 

10). However, expert builders are more courageous and give their new ventures greater 

independence to pursue exceptional advantages. 

Experts are 2.6× more likely than novices 

to have dedicated financial resources set 

aside for new-venture creation 

Experts invest 1.9× as much capital 

as novices do in a new venture 

before breaking even 

# 2.6× 1.9×  

> 12

Our 2021 findings showed odds of success that were 28 percentage points higher for new ventures when organizations 

provided ring-fenced investment in them than for those when organizations didn’t. 

16 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth Exhibit 10 

Web <2024> <Newventure> Exhibit <10> of <10> 

Note: Figures were calculated after removing respondents who said “don’t know.” 1 Respondents were asked which statements were true about new businesses launched that they were most familiar with, from launch through early scaling (ie, point at which market traction was achieved and business model proved). ²Respondents were asked to categorize their organizations’ maturity level with new-business building. “ Novice” refers to companies reported by respondents to be focused almost exclusively on core businesses, with limited capabilities or structures to support new-business building. “Expert” refers to companies reported by respondents to have strong foundational capabilities in place to support new-business building, yielding meaningful new revenues, and those reported to be industry leaders for new-business building, with proven and continually improving capabilities and structures and abilities to launch and scale new businesses, resulting in significant shares of company revenues coming from them. Source: McKinsey Global Survey on new-venture building, 1,176 senior managers and C-suite executives, May 21–July 2, 2024 

Novices stay near their core businesses while building new ventures; expert builders look beyond the core. Aspects present in new ventures,¹ by new-venture-building maturity, 2 % of respondents 

McKinsey & Company 

## 2.0× 

High degree of decision-making independence from core business In a different industry from core business Access to core business’s customer base 

## 1.8× 1.1× 

38 19 53 30 52 46 Novice (n = 95) Expert (n = 263) 

Expert builders are twice as likely as novices to give new ventures a high degree of decision-

making independence from the core businesses, and they’re nearly twice as likely to report 

building a venture in a different industry from that of the core organization. In our experience, 

this independence is one of the trickiest elements—and one of the most likely factors to trip 

up a venture in its early stages or suffocate it later on. Experts have figured this out, and they 

start by giving a new venture greater independence than naturally feels comfortable and 

supporting it when organizational politics start to get in the way. 

4. Show support from the top.  Experts benefit from leaders’ prioritization of new-venture 

building. Over the past five years, our research has consistently found that C-suite 

sponsorship of new-venture building helps new ventures succeed. In 2023, for example, 

respondents at the best builders tended to report the presence of at least one C-suite 

sponsor for venture building. The latest data reinforce this point: experts are 1.4 times more 

likely than novices to say at least one member of their C-suite championed their new ventures. 

Experts are 1.4× more likely than 

novices to have ≥1 member of 

their C-suite who championed 

their new ventures 

# 1.4× 

17 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth What’s more, experts often designate a leader to focus on building ventures. They’re more 

than twice as likely as novices to have a dedicated leader who is responsible for new-venture-

creation efforts. 

5. Staff a dedicated team with expert talent.  Companies that make venture building a standard 

part of the growth strategy find that having a dedicated venture-building team helps these 

initiatives thrive. Expert builders are 1.5 times more likely than novices to have a team or unit 

dedicated to new-venture creation. These teams typically have both clear responsibilities and 

incentives in place for scaling new ventures. 

In addition, the most experienced builders tend to prioritize attracting and upskilling talent for 

new-venture-building efforts. They often have more freedom than others to attract the best 

talent. One-quarter of expert builders have the flexibility to compensate talent more highly 

than the core business can, compared with just 13 percent of novice builders. Experts are also 

1.7 times more likely than novices to have upskilling programs to foster the skills needed for 

new-venture building. 

Looking at where talent gaps affect new-venture building, experts seem to reap the rewards 

of being effective at hiring or training the talent they need. Respondents who say their 

organizations are experts are 2.5 times as likely as those who say theirs are novices to report 

no talent gaps that affect venture-building efforts. Yet across the spectrum of venture-building 

maturity, responses show that real gaps remain, with consistency in the types of roles that 

organizations are missing. Product and design roles are the most reported challenge for both 

experts and novices, followed by commercial and data-related roles. These findings suggest 

that no matter how successful companies become at building new ventures, they benefit from 

paying continuous attention to effectively filling the roles that they will need for these efforts. 

Experts are 2.3× more likely 

than novices to have a dedicated 

leader of new-venture building 

# 2.3× 

Expert builders are 1.5× more likely than 

novices to have a team or unit dedicated 

to new-venture building 

of expert builders have the flexibility to 

compensate talent more highly than the 

core business does, compared with just 

13% of novice builders 

# 1.5×  25% 

18 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth 6. Look outside the organization’s boundaries for any missing capabilities.  Over the past 

five years, we have seen that the most successful builders don’t always need to have every 

capability in-house. The latest results show that experts recognize the benefits of outside 

assistance via acquisitions and partnerships: they’re twice as likely as novices to have acquired 

another business during their venture-building process. It’s unsurprising, then, that those 

seeing the largest revenues from venture building are the ones that are acquiring businesses. 

Respondents who say their companies acquired a business as part of developing a new venture 

report nearly four times more revenue in the venture’s fifth year than do those who say no 

businesses were acquired. 

Expert builders are also 1.4 times more likely than novices to have established partnerships 

or alliances with other organizations. As we found in  last year’s research , the companies with 

the most venture-building success are more likely than others to access external R&D and 

marketing capabilities, for example. 13 

Experts are twice as likely 

as novices to have acquired a 

business during their venture-

building process 

# 2×  

> 13 Markus Berger-de León, Shaun Collins, Ari Libarikian, Paul Jenkins, and Belkis Vasquez-McCall, “ CEOs’ choice for growth:
> Building new businesses ,” McKinsey Digital, November 9, 2023.

McKinsey commentary 

Shaun Collins 

Associate partner 

This is our fifth annual survey , and it has given us the chance to build a solid foundation of 

insights into what it takes for corporations to build new ventures—something that just wasn’t 

available before. Over time, those insights, backed by experience in working with clients, 

have provided us with a clear view of which factors really matter for corporate venture 

building to succeed. 

What’s interesting to me is how one particular factor has consistently stood out over that time 

in its influence on the outcome: the relationship between the new venture and the “mother 

ship” (the corporation). Even with all the changes in technology (such as generative AI), the 

entrepreneurial activity of the new venture, and the best of intentions, organizational factors— 

the people, the processes, and the politics—are a huge barrier. Companies are generally 

aware of this, yet still this hurdle trips them up. But time and experience has also shown us 

what really matters in combating this issue: 

— providing clear governance and having the right people involved to navigate the thorny 

issues, such as access and decision rights—this is really about having solid connective 

tissue between the two bodies 

— ensuring sufficient incentive for leaders in the corporation to make the new venture 

a success 

— evaluating the degree of independence and functional alignment between the 

new venture and mother ship on an ongoing basis, typically starting with 

greater independence 

It’s rarely easy, but these practices make all the difference. 

> 19 How CEOs are turning corporate venture building into outsize growth

Two in three CEOs tell us that they expect to build new ventures in the upcoming year, and 

forecasts suggest that more interest rate cuts are on the horizon. The conditions are ripe for 

incumbents to pursue new business opportunities. Those that do—and put in place the critical 

processes and capabilities that more mature venture builders have already established—will be 

positioned to outgrow their industry peers. 

Belkis Vasquez-McCall  is a partner in McKinsey’s Southern California office;  Daniel Aminetzah  is a senior 

partner in the New York office, where  Shaun Collins  is an associate partner;  Markus Berger-de León  is a 

senior partner in the Berlin office; and  Paul Jenkins  is a senior partner in the Oslo office. 

The authors wish to thank Alexey Dang, Ann Xu, Ari Libarikian, Delon Qiu, Dominick Battaglia, Esma Atasoy, 

James Bilefield, Jasmine Majdpour, Madhumitha Sivaraj, Mark Begej, Maya Miura, Michael Birshan, Paritosh 

Suri, Rona Beresh, Steve Frazier, and Sven Smit. 

This article was edited by Heather Hanselman, a senior editor in the Atlanta office. flfi-ffffi–ffi≥ff-ffi–ffiff- flfi-ffffi–≥ffi≥--ffififfififfi≥-ffiffi flfi-ffffi–≥ffi–ff–
