---
{
  "source_id": 709,
  "url": "https://www.executivecentre.com/blog-article/hong-kong-start-up-founders-tips",
  "title": "Hong Kong Startups 2025: What New Business Founders Need to Know - The Executive Centre",
  "fetched_at": "2026-06-04T05:23:17.920979+00:00",
  "extraction_method": "web_search_result",
  "origin": "web_fallback",
  "question": "Where can a founder get official startup support in Hong Kong, including government programmes, science parks, and incubators?",
  "web_search_score": 0.7548612
}
---

# Hong Kong Startups 2025: What New Business Founders Need to Know - The Executive Centre

The government also has a business start-up section within this visa scheme. If the start-up is backed by a government programme with a rigorous vetting and selection process, the application will be considered favourably. Some examples of these government-backed programmes include the StartmeupHK Venture Programme administered by InvestHK and the Cyberport Incubation Programme. However, we’ll cover government funding for start-up businesses in Hong Kong more extensively in the latter part of the article. [...] For more detailed information, we’ve written a guide on registering a local business in Hong Kong, which will help you make your business idea official. Need a business address to register your company? Our Virtual Offices are a great option for entrepreneurs who aren’t ready to commit to a physical office space yet are looking for a prestigious office address in Hong Kong.

## 4. Funding Your Startup

A green typewriter types out “Funding round” in all caps

Hong Kong welcomes new talent and offers a variety of different funds to support new start-up founders. From government grants to angel investors and incubation programmes, we’ve summarised a few options for entrepreneurs to consider below.

### Government Grants and Subsidies [...] ### Government Grants and Subsidies

The Hong Kong government offers various funding programs to support start-ups. Entrepreneurs who are accepted into government-funded funding schemes are also more likely to be considered favourably in their Investment as Entrepreneur visa application.

Some funding scheme examples:

### Angel Investors and Venture Capital

Pitch your idea to angel investors and venture capitalists in Hong Kong. The city is home to a broad network of investors such as the Hong Kong Business Angel Network and the Venture Investors Alliance Of Hong Kong. Here’s a more detailed list of angel investors, Venture Capitalist & Corporate Venture Capital (CVC)").

### Incubation & Acceleration Programmes
